2024 Amazon
Sustainability
Report
2
Contents
Overview
3   Introduction
A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability OfficerA Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer 
    A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer 
    A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer
5   How We Work
6   Goals Summary
7   2024 Year in Review
Progress
8   Carbon and Energy
18   Waste and Circularity
21   Packaging
24  Water
26  Biodiversity
28  Human Rights
30  Responsible Supply Chain
34  Sustainable Products
37  Employee Experience
40  Health and Safety
43  Inclusive Experiences
45  Community Impact
47  Responsible Business Practices
Appendix
50  Data Tables
54  Priority Topics Assessment
55  Endnotes
56  Assurance Statements
56  Disclaimer and 
     Forward-Looking Statements
Learn more about our cover photos  
3
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Introduction
A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer
How We Work
Goals Summary
2024 Year in Review
Introduction
About Amazon
Amazon is a global company with more than 1.5 million 
full- and part-time employees worldwide and operations in 
Africa, Asia-Pacific, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, 
and North America.
At Amazon, we combine data and science with passion 
and innovation to tackle some of the world’s most urgent 
environmental and societal challenges. We set bold,
long-term aspirations, such as The Climate Pledge—our 
goal to reach net-zero carbon emissions across our global 
operations by 2040—and create strategic, actionable 
plans to achieve them. This determined, solutions-focused 
approach guides our efforts to create lasting, positive 
impact for our customers, employees, communities, and 
the planet.
About This Report
This report details progress against our goals  and 
prioritized sustainability topics. All financial figures are 
reported in U.S. dollars ($), unless otherwise stated. The 
data within this report reflects the period from January 1 
through December 31, 2024, unless otherwise indicated. 
This report includes information about many of our 
business units and subsidiaries, including, for example: 
AWS, Devices, Amazon Fresh, Whole Foods Market, 
Amazon Private Brands, Stores, and Twitch.
Our 2024 Sustainability Report covers a range of priority 
topics, highlighting Amazon’s efforts to scale our work 
globally, collaborate with others, and invest in and 
innovate more sustainable solutions. This report details 
our work to embed decarbonization efforts across our 
business and the industries we work in; prevent and 
responsibly divert waste; avoid, optimize, and transform 
packaging; reduce, reuse, and replenish water; and 
avoid and minimize biodiversity loss within our own 
operations and beyond our value chain. We describe 
our commitments to respect human rights, foster a 
responsible supply chain, offer more sustainable products, 
and support local communities. We also discuss how our 
efforts align with our ambition to be the safest workplace 
in our industries, and how we prioritize employee
well-being and inclusivity. Finally, we highlight our robust 
governance, share our responsible business practices, and 
reinforce our commitment to operating with integrity to 
uphold the trust of our stakeholders.
Framework Disclosures
In addition to this report, we share our Sustainability 
Reporting Framework Summary on our website, which 
includes our 2024 performance against reporting 
frameworks including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD), and the United Nations Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights (UNGPs).
How to Navigate This Report
Look for these symbols throughout the report:
A link that directs you to a website
A link within the report
A link to a download
Download Accessible Table
Learn more in our 2024 Sustainability 
Reporting Framework Summary 
 
4
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Introduction
A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer
How We Work
Goals Summary
2024 Year in Review
A Letter from 
Our Chief 
Sustainability 
Officer
Amazon is a unique company. The diverse nature of our 
business allows us to test new sustainability solutions across 
industries. When we discover a solution in one area, we can 
quickly adopt it across our business, helping us move faster 
toward our sustainability goals. As a customer-obsessed 
company, we find this approach helps us make our customers’ 
lives better and easier every day, while making our operations 
more sustainable.
We’re developing cutting-edge AI, delivering packages at 
record speeds, creating award-winning entertainment, 
advancing healthcare solutions, and promoting global 
broadband access—while simultaneously reducing waste, 
expanding carbon-free energy, using lower-carbon building 
materials, protecting forests, protecting and furthering 
human rights, and helping our communities recover from 
global disasters.
Amazon’s culture also encourages us to ask “Why?” at every 
turn. When we ask why sustainability matters, the answer 
is clear: Sustainability is not separate from our customer 
obsession—it’s an extension of it. Solutions that benefit 
the environment can create superior experiences for 
our customers and also become economic drivers that 
help strengthen communities and protect the planet.
In 2024, we demonstrated this repeatedly across our 
business, with sustainability innovations directly enhancing 
customer experiences. For example, our ongoing packaging 
innovations meant customers had fewer boxes to break 
down and now zero air pillows to pop.
2024 also marked a turning point for artificial intelligence 
(AI). It’s a transformative technology that we believe 
will reinvent virtually every customer experience, as well 
as create new experiences that we only once dreamed 
would be possible. Over the last few years, Amazon has 
accelerated its investments in generative AI to build these 
experiences across our business and, including through the 
1,000-plus AI applications we’re developing across Amazon. 
We introduced Amazon Q, the most capable AI-powered 
coding assistant; SageMaker, a service that makes it easier 
to build foundation models; Amazon Bedrock, which allows 
developers to do GenAI inference at scale; our own frontier 
model, Amazon Nova, to give customers leading intelligence 
at lower latency and cost; and we’re rolling out Alexa+, our 
next-generation Alexa personal assistant that’s meaningfully 
smarter, more capable, and is the first personal assistant 
that can take significant actions for customers. We’ve also 
harnessed AI as a powerful sustainability tool—optimizing 
sizing recommendations to reduce returns, identifying 
energy inefficiencies, detecting water leaks, and avoiding 
packaging—solving countless environmental challenges 
while simultaneously improving service quality. And we’re 
just at the beginning.
As we harness generative AI’s potential and our AI 
business continues to grow rapidly, we are investing in the 
infrastructure that we’ll need to make AI innovation possible. 
We’re also tackling one of its greatest challenges head on, 
rising energy demand. Rather than viewing this as a limitation 
for sustainability, we see it as an opportunity we’re facing 
head-on to pioneer sustainability solutions at scale through 
our AWS business for our customers and our suppliers.
In 2024, we unveiled breakthrough data center innovations 
in power systems, cooling technology, and hardware 
architecture that will simultaneously support next-generation 
AI capabilities while improving energy efficiency—proving 
that technological progress and sustainability can advance 
in tandem. We’re also diversifying and expanding our  
carbon-free energy portfolio, which includes our first 
investments in nuclear energy, alongside maintaining our 
position as the world’s largest corporate purchaser of 
renewable energy for the fifth consecutive year. Through 
these complementary approaches—optimizing efficiency 
while scaling carbon-free energy—we’re creating a more 
sustainable foundation that AI needs to fulfill its  
world-changing potential.
AI is already embedded in much of this work, but when 
our customers think about sustainability at Amazon, it’s 
most often associated with our retail business, which we’ve 
made more sustainable too. In 2024, we delivered at faster 
speeds than ever before, with 10 billion items delivered 
the same or next day around the world. At the same time, 
our growing fleet of over 30,000 electric delivery vehicles 
helped deliver 1.5 billion packages globally. Across our global 
operations, we eliminated all plastic air pillows and replaced 
them with recyclable paper filler. We also reduced our total 
plastic packaging by 16.4%. We’ve been keenly focused on 
preventing and diverting waste, and in 2024, 85% of our 
waste was diverted from landfill.
As we continue to champion sustainability solutions for 
our customers, we’re doing the same for our partners and 
suppliers. As of today, over 550 companies have committed 
to The Climate Pledge and are choosing to come together to 
drive joint action and fast-track decarbonization solutions. 
In that same spirit of collaboration, we’re engaging our 
suppliers to set their own sustainability goals. To accelerate 
collective progress, we launched The Sustainability Exchange, 
sharing our playbooks and previously proprietary insights 
freely with businesses worldwide. This collaborative approach 
multiplies our impact by allowing companies to build on proven 
solutions, combines our collective resources to tackle our 
greatest environmental challenges, and drives industry-wide 
momentum with a powerful blend of urgency and optimism.
Looking ahead, we recognize that the path to being a more 
sustainable company will never be linear, because we’re 
charting new territory at an unprecedented scale. While we 
are firm on our goals, our approach will continuously evolve 
with emerging challenges and opportunities, as we’re seeing 
with the rapid adoption of AI. No matter what we’re faced 
with in the future, we’ll remain steadfast in our commitment 
to sustainability and will continue to invest, innovate, and 
obsess over our progress each year, with the same intensity 
and focus that has defined Amazon from Day One.
The progress demonstrated in this report is the result of the 
years of work by thousands of Amazonians who have never 
stopped asking “Why?” to find better and more sustainable 
solutions. This questioning mindset has uncovered innovative 
ways to reduce waste, cut emissions, and improve efficiency. 
I’m confident our habit of asking tough questions will 
lead to continued breakthrough solutions for decades to 
come. Thank you to everyone—our teams, partners, and 
customers—who have helped turn these questions into 
real-world progress.
With gratitude,
Kara Hurst 
Chief Sustainability Officer
5
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Introduction
A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer
How We Work
Goals Summary
2024 Year in Review
How We Work
Our Mission
To make customers’ lives better and easier every day.
Our Business
We are committed to addressing 
sustainability at every stage of 
our value chain.
Our Operations
We offer a wide range of products and 
services—both Amazon-branded and 
from other brands and third-party sellers 
—through our Amazon stores, supported 
by advanced global transportation and 
logistics capabilities. We also operate 
businesses in digital media, including 
the creation and distribution of original 
entertainment content. In addition, AWS 
provides the world’s most widely adopted 
and comprehensive cloud offering, 
supporting customers and businesses 
around the globe.
Our Supply Chain
We procure materials, commodities, 
components, finished goods, and 
services from a complex supplier 
network. We engage suppliers globally 
to align our expectations for respecting 
human rights, maintaining safe, 
inclusive workplaces, and promoting 
more sustainable practices.
Our Workforce
Amazon’s more than 1.5 million  
full- and part-time employees are 
key to our success, from enabling 
global fulfillment to delivering on 
sustainability initiatives. We support 
them in advancing their own career 
goals, and we offer competitive pay 
and benefits, upskilling and educational 
programs, opportunities to give back to 
our communities through volunteerism, 
as well as an inclusive workplace. 
Our Communities
Amazon is committed to investing 
in local communities, and being a 
good neighbor all around the world, 
wherever we operate. We work 
side-by-side with community partners 
to build long-term, innovative 
programs that have a lasting positive 
impact. Programs vary globally 
and include increasing access to 
affordable housing, alleviating hunger, 
strengthening education, and helping 
those impacted by natural disasters 
when they occur.
Our Customers
We continually seek new and better 
ways to serve customers, offering 
lower prices, more convenient 
services, and a larger selection 
of more sustainable products. 
We also help customers advance 
their businesses and enable digital 
transformations through AWS, 
content development services, and 
advertising options. In addition, 
we support small businesses with 
access to Amazon’s tools, resources, 
and network, helping them reach 
customers around the world.
Our Reporting 
Topics
We include a number of topics in our 
reporting. We view these topics as 
interconnected and recognize that 
our progress in one area can often 
help address challenges in another.
Carbon and Energy 
Waste and Circularity 
Packaging 
Water 
Biodiversity 
Human Rights 
Responsible Supply Chain 
Sustainable Products 
Employee Experience 
Health and Safety 
Inclusive Experiences 
Community Impact 
Responsible Business Practices  
6
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Introduction
A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer
How We Work
Goals Summary
2024 Year in Review
Goals Summary  
Achieved
Making Progress
Did Not Meet
Goal
2022 Progress
2023 Progressss
2024 Progress
Status
Carbon and Energy
Reach net-zero carbon emissions across our  
global operations by 2040
65.10M MTCO2e
64.38M MTCO2e
68.25M MTCO2e*
85.7g CO2e/$GMS
75.6g CO2e/$GMS
72.6g CO2e/$GMS†
Through The Climate Pledge, inspire and empower 
others to join us on a mission to reach net-zero 
carbon emissions by 2040
396 signatories
473 signatories
549 signatories
At least 100,000 electric delivery vans on the road 
by 2030, from Rivian and other manufacturers 
7K+ electric  
delivery vans
19K+ electric  
delivery vans
31.4K+ electric  
delivery vans
Deploy 10,000 electric vehicles (EVs) in India  
by 2025
3.8K+ EVs deployed
7.2K+ EVs deployed
10K+ EVs deployed
Match 100% of the electricity consumed by our 
global operations with renewable energy by 
2025—five years ahead of our original target of 2030
90% matched
100% matched
100% matched
Invest in wind and solar capacity equal to the 
energy used by all active Echo, Fire TV, and Ring 
devices worldwide by 2025‡
100% capacity 
procured 
100% capacity 
procured in 2022
100% energy matched 
with operational capacity
Waste and Circularity
Reduce food waste by 50% across U.S. 
and Europe operations by 2030§
82M meals-equivalent 
donated globally
80M meals-equivalent 
donated globally
81M meals-equivalent 
donated globally¶
*Carbon dioxide equivalent. †Grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per dollar of gross merchandise sales. ‡To understand what this goal should encompass, we model 
and measure the energy consumed by our devices in different types of use, then project their total average global annual electricity consumption. §Goal scope 
covers food that is considered inventory. It is measured with a food waste intensity metric that calculates the amount of food waste generated as a percentage 
of total food handled within Amazon. ¶Meals-equivalent donated globally aligns with our approach to prevent waste by prioritizing the flow of products to their 
intended use, in this case ensuring surplus food goes toward human consumption. A reduction in meals-equivalent donations indicates a reduction in food waste.
Goal
2022 Progress
2023 Progressss
2024 Progress
Status
Water
Amazon is committed to returning more water 
to communities in India than it uses in all direct 
operations by 2027
Goal set in 2024
AWS will be water positive by 2030, returning 
more water to communities than it uses in its 
direct operations
Goal set in 2022
41% progress toward 
meeting its water 
positive goal
53% progress toward 
meeting its water 
positive goal** 
Employee Experience
Invest $1.2 billion to upskill over 300,000 U.S. 
Amazon employees by 2025
110K employees 
upskilled
358K+ employees 
upskilled††
439K employees 
upskilled
Community Impact
Invest $3.6 billion to create and preserve 
more than 35,000 affordable homes‡‡
$1.6B committed 
and 11K homes created 
or preserved
$1.8B committed and 
~15.8K homes created 
or preserved
$2.2B committed and 
21K+ homes created or 
preserved
Distribute up to $60 million in AWS cloud 
computing credits to support organizations 
promoting global health by the end of 2024§§
$14M+ in cloud 
computing credits 
distributed
$32M+ in cloud 
computing credits 
distributed
$60M in cloud 
computing credits 
distributed
Help 29 million people globally grow their 
technical skills by providing free cloud  
computing skills training by 2025
13M people helped
21M people helped
 31M people helped
Provide free artificial intelligence (AI) skills  
training to 2 million people globally by 2025
Goal set in 2023
2M+ people provided  
AI skills training
**A number below 100% indicates AWS is still working to meet the water positive goal. ††In 2022, we reported progress for the Career Choice program in 
the U.S. In 2023, we expanded our reporting to include all in-scope upskilling programs in the U.S. ‡‡In 2024, we announced an expanded commitment 
of $1.4 billion to create and preserve an additional 14,000 homes. This goal is not currently time-bound. §§In January 2024, AWS announced an 
additional $20 million in funding for the Health Equity Initiative, bringing the company’s total commitment to $60 million in cloud credits.
Download Accessible Table
7
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Introduction
A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer
How We Work
Goals Summary
2024 Year in Review
2024 Year in Review
As we reflect on 2024, we are proud of our achievements. We have worked 
hard to reduce our environmental footprint, drive improvements throughout 
our value chain, and to create a safer, more inclusive place for people to work.
1.5B
Packages delivered by electric 
delivery vehicles globally
16.4%
Reduction in single-use plastic 
delivery packaging globally
1.15
Global Power Usage Effectiveness 
(PUE) for AWS data centers, compared 
to the industry average of 1.25
$2.2B
Invested in pay for U.S. employees 
in frontline operations roles, 
bringing average base pay to over 
$22 per hour and average total 
compensation to over $29 per 
hour including the value of 
elected benefits
95M
Meals donated or delivered to 
households in need
1.7B+
Units sold that were recognized by 
certifications in our Climate Pledge 
Friendly program, a 48% increase 
from 2023
34%
Improvement in Recordable Incident 
Rate (RIR) and 65% improvement 
in Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) 
among employees across our global 
operations over the past five years. 
RIR includes any work-related injury 
that requires more than basic first 
aid treatment and LTIR includes any 
work-related injury that requires 
someone to take time away from 
work (the most serious injuries)
3.6K+
Supplier audits including  
Amazon-branded products,  
third-party labor, service, and  
not-for-resale goods providers 
across our logistics, warehousing, 
and construction supply chain
49K
Hectares of land protected or 
restored through biodiversity and 
nature-related contributions and 
investments over the past five years
85%
Landfill diversion rate, up from 84% 
in 2023 and 82% in 2022
Launched Amazon Sustainability 
Exchange to help others take action, 
sharing our formerly proprietary 
guidelines, playbooks, science 
models, and other resources
100K+
Employees participated in Career 
Choice, our free education and skills 
training program
12%
Of packages globally shipped 
without additional Amazon 
packaging as part of the Ships in 
Product Packaging program
7.8M+
Students reached from underserved 
communities globally through 
Amazon Future Engineer programs
4.3B
Liters of water returned to 
communities from active 
replenishment projects, with more 
than 7 billion liters of total annual 
contracted replenishment
volume for future years
Gl
8
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Carbon 
and Energy
Goal
Match 100% of the electricity 
consumed by our global operations 
with renewable energy by 2025—five 
years ahead of our original target 
of 20303
100%
Of electricity consumed by Amazon 
was matched with renewable energy 
sources in 2024, for the second 
consecutive year
Goal
Invest in wind and solar farm capacity 
equal to the energy use of all active 
Echo, Fire TV, and Ring devices 
worldwide by 2025
100%
Of energy used by active Echo, Fire 
TV, and Ring devices worldwide was 
matched with operational wind and 
solar capacity in 20244
Goal
At least 100,000 electric delivery vans 
on the road by 2030, from Rivian and 
other manufacturers5
31.4K+
Electric vans deployed globally
Goal
Inspire and invite others to sign 
The Climate Pledge and join us on 
a mission to reach net-zero carbon 
emissions by 2040
549
Signatories, up from 473 in 2023
Goal
Deploy 10,000 electric vehicles in 
India by 2025
10K+
Electric vehicles deployed in India, 
surpassing our goal one year ahead 
of schedule6
Our Approach
Amazon is investing in new solutions to decarbonize our 
business by using our size, scale, and resources to drive 
progress across our supply chain and the industries in 
which we operate.1 
Through The Climate Pledge , which we co-founded and 
committed to in 2019, our goal is to reach net-zero carbon 
emissions across our global operations by 2040, while 
inspiring and inviting others to take action. We recognize 
that progress will not always be linear, but we remain 
focused on serving our customers better, faster, and with 
fewer emissions.
Our strategy is aligned with climate science and embeds 
decarbonization initiatives and efficiency improvements 
across our business and supply chain. Teams across 
Amazon are accountable for setting decarbonization 
plans that map back to Amazon’s worldwide strategy, as 
ownership and accountability are essential to operational 
success and managing complexity. We focus on four 
cross-cutting initiatives to decarbonize our business:
•	 Driving efficiency across our global operations. We 
identify and implement efficiency initiatives across 
Amazon, such as improving transportation routing, 
increasing pack and fill rates, improving cloud-computing 
chip efficiency, adding Low Power Mode to devices, and 
installing energy-efficiency solutions in buildings.
•	 Deploying lower-carbon alternatives. We use 
lower-carbon options when practicable, such as 
lower-carbon concrete and steel during construction, 
recycled and bio-based plastics in data center 
components, and lower-emission fuels and vehicles 
for transportation.
•	 Investing in carbon-free electricity. We invest in 
carbon-free energy, such as on-site solar, utility-scale 
solar and wind, nuclear, as well as battery energy 
storage to collect and store carbon-free energy.2
•	 Engaging with suppliers. We actively engage, 
support, and incentivize suppliers to join Amazon’s 
decarbonization journey by setting credible goals, 
implementing emissions reduction strategies, and 
transparently sharing their progress, and we create 
industry solutions that our suppliers can utilize, like the 
Amazon Sustainability Exchange .
Beyond our own operations, we are working to accelerate 
decarbonization across industries and with suppliers by:
•	 Catalyzing industry-wide action. We bring 
companies together from around the world through 
The Climate Pledge, driving collective action, 
cross-sector collaboration, and engagement in 
initiatives that encourage industry-wide measures 
to promote decarbonization.
•	 Investing in innovation. We adopt ready-to-scale 
solutions, and we evaluate and invest in emerging 
technologies through The Climate Pledge Fund  —
including those that can help address emissions from 
hard-to-abate sectors. We also provide direct 
funding to accelerate the widespread adoption 
of such emerging technologies.
•	 Supporting policies that drive decarbonization. 
We work with policymakers, governments, 
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), industry 
associations, coalitions, and other organizations on 
regulatory and policy issues aimed at advancing 
and incentivizing decarbonization.
•	 Catalyzing climate finance and market-based 
mechanisms. We use mechanisms (e.g., insets and book 
and claim) to spur development of decarbonization 
technologies and transform the sectors in which 
we operate. This allows us to make progress on 
commodities where decarbonization solutions are 
not yet available within our direct supply chain.
•	 Neutralizing remaining emissions. While our first 
priority is to eliminate emissions within our value 
chain, we are also investing in climate mitigation 
solutions outside of our value chain as a contribution 
to global climate action. Our approach focuses on 
direct investment, advance purchase agreements, 
coalition building, new methodology development, 
and technological innovation.
Our Progress
Our Carbon Footprint
Regular and transparent reporting is an important part 
of our decarbonization strategy and our Climate Pledge 
9
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Actions
#1
Largest corporate purchaser of 
renewable energy in the world for
the fifth consecutive year, according 
to BloombergNEF
3.7M
Gallons of blended SAF procured
1.5B
Packages delivered by EVs globally
1.15
Global Power Usage Effectiveness 
(PUE) for AWS data centers, compared 
to the industry average of 1.25
621
Total renewable energy projects 
globally—including 124 new 
projects—representing 34 GW
of capacity
90%
Of our highest-emitting suppliers
have decarbonization plans in place
Launched Amazon Sustainability Exchange to help others 
take action, sharing our formerly proprietary guidelines, 
playbooks, science models, and other resources10
Goal
Reach net-zero carbon emissions 
across our global operations by 2040
Amazon’s Carbon Footprint (MMT CO₂e*) 
 
commitment. We measure both absolute emissions and 
carbon intensity to provide a complete picture of our 
progress toward our 2040 goal. Absolute emissions are 
critical to our end goal, and carbon intensity helps us 
assess the effectiveness of our actions along the way. 
This type of comprehensive measurement is not only 
important for us, but it is also useful for our customers 
and partners, so they can understand how investments 
across our value chain are driving real progress.
After two years of decreasing absolute carbon emissions, 
we saw a 6% increase in 2024.7 This is where carbon 
intensity helps us examine whether we’re employing the 
right solutions in the near term, and decoupling emissions 
from business growth.8 In 2024, we achieved a 4% 
reduction in carbon intensity compared to 2023, with 11% 
business growth during the same period. We have also 
seen a sustained reduction in carbon intensity year over 
year and have reduced our carbon intensity approximately 
40% since committing to The Climate Pledge in 2019.9 
As we continue toward our 2040 goal, our progress will 
not be linear, but we will remain focused on investing in 
long-term solutions, optimizing for network efficiencies, 
helping our supply chain decarbonize, and innovating with 
our partners in the hard-to-abate parts of our business.
Direct Emissions
Amazon’s direct emissions are primarily generated from 
the fuel used by our transportation and logistics fleet to 
deliver packages to customers, and refrigerants to keep 
buildings and products cool. One way we address this is 
by continually refining our strategy to reduce emissions 
generated during the full journey of an Amazon package—
from its origins with the manufacturer to the doorstep of 
the customer. 
We know that speed matters to our customers, which is 
why we invest in our logistics and delivery capabilities 
to optimize for faster deliveries while prioritizing 
sustainability. For example, we’ve optimized our inventory 
placement to shorten the distance products have to 
travel to our customers. By dividing our operations 
and transportation networks into smaller regions and 
stocking more of the products our customers want locally 
customers can get the products they want quickly and we 
can utilize more sustainable modes of transport to deliver 
those products to them. In 2024, we avoided millions of 
miles due to increased efficiency from this regionalization 
effort and expect to accelerate this progress in coming 
years. Additionally, we continue to optimize how we fill 
our trucks and are increasing the use of electric vehicles 
(EVs). And when we can’t use EVs, we use lower-carbon 
transportation modes, such as alternative fuel vehicles, 
where possible. By the end of 2024, we had reduced the 
carbon emissions per shipped unit by roughly one-third 
since 2019. Specific examples include:  
•	 Offering customers shipping options that improve 
routing, by combining products into one delivery. In 
2024, Prime members in the U.S. saved an estimated 
452 million delivery trips, which helped avoid the use of 
more than 494 million boxes and the generation 
of 335,000 metric tons of CO2e. Learn more about how 
we are improving routing efficiency 
•	 Expanding our electric delivery fleet by delivering 1.5 
billion packages to customers using more than 31,400 
electric delivery vans and other EVs. To support our 
expanding EV network, we installed 11,770 chargers 
at 50 delivery stations, creating the largest private 
charging network in the U.S. In early 2025, we also 
announced our largest order of zero-tailpipe-emission 
heavy goods vehicles, with more than 200 new 
Mercedes-Benz Trucks eActros 600 vehicles set to join 
our transportation network in Europe. These vehicles 
are expected to transport 338 million packages per year 
when fully operational. Learn more about how we are 
scaling up EVs  
•	 Scaling lower-carbon fuels. In 2024, Amazon procured 
3.7 million gallons of blended sustainable aviation fuel 
(SAF). In addition, we expanded our use of renewable 
*Million metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent.
† Scope 2 and 3 carbon emissions are calculated using a  
market-based method.
‡ Grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per dollar of gross  
merchandise sales.
§ We updated our Carbon Methodology  used for our 2022, 2023,  
and 2024 carbon footprint
Direct Emissions
Indirect Emissions from Purchased Electricity†
Indirect Emissions from Other Sources†
Carbon intensity (gCO₂e/$GMS)‡
5.76
51.17
60.64
71.54
65.10
64.38
68.25
9.62
12.11
13.02
14.22
15.13
2022§
2023§
2024§
2021
2020
2019
39.91
5.50
45.75
5.27
55.36
4.07
49.02
3.06
47.40
2.76
50.32
2.80
102.7
122.8
100.8
85.7
75.6
72.6
10
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
diesel—a lower-carbon fuel made from waste fats and 
oils—using 4.7 million gallons in middle and last mile 
operations, up from 286,300 gallons in 2023. Learn 
more about how we are scaling lower-carbon fuels  
Our direct emissions increased 6% compared to 2023, as 
our business continued to grow and we navigated global 
supply constraints for EVs and low-carbon fuels. This 
reinforces the importance of our leadership in creating 
stronger demand signals for lower-carbon transportation 
solutions through buyers’ alliances, partnerships with 
industry leaders, policymakers, and other companies.
Indirect Emissions from Purchased Electricity 
Our indirect emissions from purchased electricity primarily 
come from electricity used to power buildings and charge 
EVs at our facilities. Two of the most effective ways we 
manage indirect emissions from purchased electricity are 
by transitioning to carbon-free energy sources and by 
improving energy efficiency. 
Nuclear power is a key component of our carbon-free 
energy strategy, in addition to using renewable energy 
sources such as wind and solar. In 2024, we signed 
agreements to support nuclear energy projects, including 
the development of Small Modular Reactors (SMRs). SMRs 
feature a compact design that enables faster construction 
closer to power grids, which allows for more rapid 
deployment than traditional reactors. Additionally, as of 
January 2025, we had invested in 621 renewable energy 
projects—including 124 new projects in 2024 alone—
representing 34 GW of carbon-free energy capacity. 
Learn more about how we are transitioning to 
carbon-free energy 
Today, in virtually every corner of Amazon, we’re using 
generative AI to make customers’ lives better and easier—
and while we’ve made a lot of progress, we’re still at the 
relative beginning. One of the biggest challenges with 
scaling AI is increased energy demands for data centers. 
This increased energy demand is from AI chips, which 
are vital for machine learning models, but require more 
electricity and cooling than traditional chips given the 
higher speeds at which they complete mathematical 
calculations.11 We are laser-focused on improving energy 
efficiency, which we measure through Power Usage 
Effectiveness (PUE). In 2024, AWS reported a global 
PUE of 1.15—better than both the public cloud industry 
average of 1.25 and 1.63 for on-premises enterprise 
data centers, as estimated by the International Data 
Corporation.12 A lower PUE value indicates greater 
efficiency (with the theoretical minimum PUE being 1.0), 
and indicates that using AWS to power AI innovation is 
a lower-emission option than most. We achieved this 
success from optimized data center designs, energy-
efficient custom chips, and advanced cooling technologies. 
For example, new AWS data center components 
introduced in 2024 deliver 12% more computing power 
and reduce peak cooling energy consumption by 46% 
compared to previous designs, all without increasing 
water usage. Learn more about how we’re improving 
energy efficiency to power AI innovation 
For the past two years, 100% of the electricity consumed 
by Amazon was matched with renewable energy sources. 
This helps us reduce carbon emissions, but doesn’t 
eliminate them. We saw a 1% increase in our indirect 
emissions from purchased electricity in 2024, in part due to 
the higher electricity usage required to support advanced 
technologies. This underscores why it’s important to scale 
carbon-free energy sources to continue to deliver the 
advanced technologies our customers need.
Indirect Emissions from Other Sources
Indirect emissions from other sources are from activities 
beyond our direct operations, including building materials 
and construction, third-party transportation, and the 
production of Amazon-branded products and their 
components by our suppliers.
We aim to reduce embodied carbon in building construction 
by using lower-emission concrete, lower-emission steel and 
aluminum, and mass timber. In 2024, 49 Amazon building 
projects incorporated lower-carbon building materials and 
finishes, avoiding at least 77,000 metric tons of embodied 
CO2e.13 Learn more about how we are reducing embodied 
carbon in our buildings 
Reducing indirect emissions from other sources requires 
engaging our suppliers on their efforts to decarbonize. It 
is important that all suppliers understand their business 
and how they will decarbonize, and that they have a 
plan to do so. To enable that, we are open-sourcing 
information and making playbooks available through 
the Sustainability Exchange , a free, publicly available 
website offering previously proprietary information 
to help other companies seeking to make meaningful 
progress toward net-zero carbon emissions. Learn more 
about how we are engaging suppliers  
Indirect emissions from other sources, which made up 
74% of our total carbon footprint in 2024, increased 
6% from 2023, primarily from data center construction 
and fuel consumption by third-party delivery service 
providers. As we look forward, we will continue to focus 
on our supplier engagement programs and our investment 
in lower-carbon building materials, which help create 
scalable solutions for reducing indirect emissions across 
our business.
Engaging Others on the Path to Net-Zero 
Carbon by 2040
We recognize that addressing complex sustainability 
challenges—like enabling widespread electrification, 
scaling lower-carbon fuels, and increasing the availability 
of lower-carbon building materials—requires growing 
demand to expand supply and achieve lower costs 
through efficiencies of scale. We drive change through 
industry engagement and buyers’ alliances like Zero 
Emission Maritime Buyers Alliance (ZEMBA) and the 
Sustainable Aviation Buyers Alliance (SABA), which help 
develop lower-carbon solutions for hard-to-abate sectors 
and commodities. Our partnerships with organizations 
such as the Clean Energy Buyers Association (CEBA), RMI’s 
Sustainable Steel Buyers Platform, the Smart Freight 
Centre, and The Center for Green Market Activation support 
innovation and decarbonization across multiple industries. 
Learn more about how we are catalyzing industry action 
This work extends through The Climate Pledge, which had 
reached 549 signatories by the end of 2024 and is working 
on 11 joint action projects to address critical climate 
challenges. The Climate Pledge Fund, which marked its 
fifth year of investing in 2024, enables us to invest in 
companies operating in hard-to-abate sectors. In 2024, 
the fund made 12 new and follow-on investments across 
transportation, energy, buildings, and carbon removal 
sectors. Learn more about how we are investing in 
innovation through the Climate Pledge Fund 
Looking ahead, we remain committed to innovation 
and collaboration. We aim to deliver the best for our 
customers and communities while progressing toward our 
goal of net-zero carbon emissions across our operations 
by 2040. Ultimately, we strive to contribute to a better 
planet for all.
Embedding Decarbonization 
Efforts Across Our Business
Driving Efficiency Across Our Global 
Operations
From how we deliver packages and operate our cloud 
technologies to how we design buildings and products, 
we continually seek ways to use less energy and generate 
fewer emissions.
11
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Enhancing Routing and Fleet Efficiency
Optimal routing and transportation network efficiency is 
one of our most impactful ways of reducing emissions. To 
optimize routing and transportation network efficiency, 
we deploy a multi-pronged strategy to reduce emissions 
during the full journey of an Amazon package from its 
manufacturer all the way through to the customer. We 
prioritize the lowest-emission delivery methods wherever 
possible, while balancing trade-offs in speed, cost, 
reliability, and convenience.
Where possible, we prioritize lower-emission transportation 
options, using a mix of road, rail, sea, and air. In 2024, 
we offered our customers shipping options that promote 
routing efficiency, further reducing the miles traveled and 
the average carbon emissions associated with delivery. 
In 2024, Prime members in the U.S. saved an estimated 
452 million deliveries due to consolidating their Prime 
deliveries, which helped avoid the use of more than 494 
million boxes and 335,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalent (MTCO₂e). Ocean and rail transportation have 
a lower carbon footprint than air transportation, so we 
prioritize shipping our products via those modes, when 
feasible. In 2024, 90% of our imported transoceanic 
shipments were transported via ocean freight and 10% 
transported via airfreight, consistent with 2023. We 
increased our total rail load volume by 59% in Europe and 
11% in the U.S. compared to 2023.
Amazon launched rail deliveries in the UK for the first 
time in 2024. Products are loaded onto train cars on the 
fully electric West Coast Main Line, which runs between 
Scotland and the Midlands. More than 5 million products 
are expected to travel on the UK’s electric rail network 
in 2025, avoiding traffic congestion and reducing carbon 
emissions, with plans to expand across further electric rail 
routes before the end of 2025.
We are also exploring using inland waterways and 
passenger trains as part of our Intermodal City Injections 
program. For example, we collaborated on a pilot project to 
deliver packages using electric delivery vehicles to transport 
products from the distribution center to an electric tram 
followed by micromobility e-cargo bikes in Frankfurt, 
Germany—achieving zero tailpipe emissions from delivery 
station to customer. We have also continued to invest 
in lower-carbon fuels and deployment of electric and 
alternative fuel vehicles to reduce transportation- 
related emissions.
We aim to avoid unnecessary delivery packaging whenever 
possible, and select lighter, right-sized options, to ship 
products to customers with fewer associated emissions. 
We also aim to increase pack and fill rates to optimize 
truck and airplane space, which can also reduce the 
number of trucks needed to make deliveries. In addition, 
we provide customers with shipping options that 
reduce the emissions associated with the delivery of 
their packages. 
Learn more about our more sustainable packaging 
approach 
Implementing Efficiency Initiatives in Our Buildings
Building construction is a significant driver of carbon 
emissions in many industries, due to the associated 
embodied carbon that is emitted during the construction 
process. Amazon’s buildings portfolio includes owned and 
leased facilities in 65 countries, encompassing a number 
of building types—including operations facilities, grocery 
stores, corporate offices, and data centers. As a result, 
implementing and scaling decarbonization solutions 
and processes to reduce the footprint of our built 
environment is a priority for Amazon.
Our building decarbonization work  focuses on the 
materials and methods used in construction as well 
as the energy consumption and emissions associated 
with operations that occur throughout a building’s 
lifecycle. Our standardized approach targets five areas: 
(1) prioritizing carbon-free energy; (2) increasing energy 
efficiency; (3) using lower-carbon refrigerants; (4) using 
lower-carbon construction materials; and (5) reducing 
on-site water consumption and waste generation. These 
efforts are supported by investments in innovative 
technology, as well as regular testing and learning to 
refine our approach and guide future development.
In 2024, we conducted 200 energy audits of our 
existing buildings to inform future upgrade programs 
and to help optimize operational performance. We 
also improved energy efficiency in our North America 
and Europe fulfillment centers through optimizing 
warehouse ventilation controls, updating heating 
and air conditioning scheduling, upgrading dock door 
levelers, and implementing intelligent materials handling 
equipment management. These system optimizations 
helped reduce energy consumption by 92 million 
kilowatt hours and helped avoid 24 million metric tons 
of CO₂e compared to 2023. We piloted a prototype of 
a new high-performance dehumidification technology, 
which decreases air conditioning energy consumption 
and associated emissions while improving air quality for 
occupants in buildings located in humid climates.
As we progress our building decarbonization efforts, 
we continue to obtain validation of our improvements 
through Zero Carbon certification by the International 
Living Future Institute (Living Future). In 2024, a sortation 
center in Melbourne, Australia, was certified, bringing our 
total Living Future-certified buildings to four.
Optimizing AWS Global Cloud Infrastructure
As the world’s most comprehensive and broadly adopted 
cloud, AWS is committed to building a more energy 
efficient and lower-carbon business for our customers 
and the planet, especially as advancements in digital 
transformation and adoption of advanced technologies 
such as AI increase global demand for data center 
capacity. Research 
 estimates AWS infrastructure is up 
to 4.1 times more efficient than on-premises computing, 
and when workloads are optimized on AWS, the 
associated carbon footprint can be reduced by up to 99%.
In 2024, AWS had a global PUE of 1.15. This was achieved 
through optimized data center designs, purpose-built 
chips, and innovative cooling technologies. Additionally, 
in 2024, we unveiled new AWS data center components, 
offering 12% more compute power with improved 
availability and efficiency. AWS also introduced a novel, 
direct-to-chip liquid cooling solution  for high-density 
AI compute chips in new and existing data centers. These 
components reduce mechanical energy consumption
by up to 46% during peak cooling—without increasing 
water usage.
Additionally, with increased computing power required for 
AI and other applications, investing in purpose-built chips 
that advance innovations in power efficiency continues to 
be an important part of our strategy. We offer a number 
of chips with energy-efficiency benefits. For example, 
Graviton-based instances use up to 60% less energy than 
comparable instances for the same performance. At the 
end of 2024, over 70,000 customers had adopted Graviton 
chips, achieving an estimated reduction of 12,000 MTCO₂e 
due to increased energy efficiency. Amazon’s own adoption 
of Graviton chips has achieved an estimated reduction of 
71,000 MTCO₂e in 2024. Other efficiency savings include 
Inferentia2-based instances, which offer up to 50% better 
performance/watt over comparable Amazon Elastic 
Compute Cloud (EC2) instances, and AWS Trainium3 chips 
are designed to be up to 40% more energy efficient than 
AWS Trainium2 chips.
Selecting Lower-Carbon Alternatives
Whenever possible, Amazon aims to select lower-carbon 
alternatives across transportation, buildings, and products, 
and we consider a range of factors, including cost, 
emissions reduction potential, and availability.
Scaling Use of Electric Vehicles
We are focused on a comprehensive transportation 
decarbonization strategy that includes optimizing our 
12
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
network to minimize unnecessary transportation, promoting 
electrification where technologically and operationally 
feasible, and pursuing efficient lower-carbon fuel solutions.
We deliver packages to our customers every day, 
making vehicle electrification within our network a 
decarbonization priority for Amazon. We have set goals 
to have at least 100,000 electric delivery vans on the road 
globally by 2030 and more than 10,000 electric delivery 
vehicles deployed in India by 2025.
In 2024, we made progress toward these goals, with more 
than 31,400 electric vans deployed globally—including 
more than 24,000 from Rivian—up from 19,000 in 2023. 
To support this growth, we installed 11,770 chargers, 
bringing our total to 24,000 chargers at 50 delivery 
stations—now the largest private charging network in the 
U.S. We also achieved our India goal ahead of schedule, 
deploying more than 10,000 electric vehicles in 2024, a 
year earlier than planned. These initiatives enabled us to 
deliver 1.5 billion packages via EVs globally in 2024.
We continue to increase the usage of EVs that move 
shipments between Amazon facilities, which are called 
middle mile EVs and include light, medium, and 
heavy-duty electric goods vehicles (eHGVs). In early 
2025, we announced our largest order of zero-tailpipe-
emission heavy goods vehicles , with more than 200 
new Mercedes-Benz Trucks eActros 600 vehicles set to 
join our transportation network in Europe, which are 
expected to transport 338 million packages per year once 
fully operational. We expect these vehicles to join the 300 
middle mile EVs deployed in our transportation network 
by the end of 2025 in the UK and by 2026 in Germany. We 
collaborate with others to advance the improvements in 
charging infrastructure and electricity grids required to 
enable more widespread use of eHGVs.
We are also focused on electrification of vehicles used 
on-site. In 2024, Amazon had 360 electric yard hostlers, 
vehicles that move truck trailers around fulfillment centers, 
in North America—one of the world’s largest fleets.
While we aim to scale up our use of EVs globally, 
electrification at scale is a challenge. Our operations 
look very different across the globe, and within our 
transportation networks, we see different vehicle 
types from different suppliers. We need vehicles and 
chargers that can meet our operational needs, as well 
as our technical, cost, and sustainability requirements. 
Specific challenges include limited land availability, 
energy dependence, trade barriers, limited financing, 
power availability at competitive rates, and unfavorable 
policy environments. We are engaging with private and 
government partners to remove these barriers and enable 
broader access to electrification.
Sourcing Better Materials and Designing 
More Efficient Products
We know that producing more sustainable and efficient 
products starts with responsibly sourcing raw materials. 
Agricultural deforestation is a significant contributor to 
climate change, as it decreases carbon sequestration, thus 
increasing GHG emissions. We aim to reduce deforestation 
risk within our global grocery and commodities supply 
chains for commodities including palm oil, beef, coffee, 
and tea. When we develop Amazon devices, we aim 
for each generation to be more carbon-efficient than 
the last by integrating efficiency features directly into 
product design and incorporating recycled materials into 
our products where feasible. Learn more about how 
we are reducing deforestation risk and designing more-
sustainable products 
Increasing Use of Lower-Carbon Fuels and 
Alternative-Fuel Vehicles
Electrification is our primary strategy for decarbonizing 
logistics and transportation network vehicles. Where 
electrification is not yet feasible, we are scaling and 
encouraging the use of lower-carbon fuels, focusing 
on road transportation in the short term and ocean 
transportation and aviation over the long term. While 
these fuels are important to our strategy, they remain 
nascent, with industry challenges including supply 
constraints, high prices, and limited access. We are making 
investments to help lower costs and scale supply, and 
through industry collaborations, we aim to encourage the 
development and expansion of lower-carbon fuels, making 
these fuels more accessible and affordable for everyone. 
We engage in efforts that focus on:
•	 Lower-carbon marine fuels: As a member of the First 
Movers Coalition and co-founder of ZEMBA in 2023, 
we seek to expand the use of lower-emission fuels and 
technologies for ocean transportation. We support the 
First Movers Coalition goal of using maritime ships with 
zero-emission fuels for at least 10% of cargo shipped 
internationally by 2030, and ZEMBA’s goal that freight 
buyers can purchase third-party verified zero-emission 
shipping for 100% of ocean cargo by 2040. In 2024, we 
purchased lower-emission biofuel services representing 
the maritime transportation of more than 10% of our 
ocean cargo. In addition, Amazon worked with dozens 
of companies to support ZEMBA’s first tender for ocean 
shipping  by committing to purchase Environmental 
Attribute Certificates (EACs) associated with over 
1 billion 20-foot shipping container-miles.
•	 Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF): For air transportation, 
we source lower-carbon SAF and support the 
development of SAF EACs. We work with peers on 
innovative solutions to resolve the low volume and high 
cost of SAF. We co-founded the Sustainable Aviation 
Buyers Alliance and played a significant role in the 
launch of the (SAFc) Registry, which aims to increase 
transparency related to emissions reduction claims and 
accelerate overall SAF deployment. In 2024, Amazon 
procured 3.7 million gallons of blended SAF.
•	 Renewable diesel: In 2024, we increased use of 
renewable diesel—a lower-carbon fuel made from 
waste fats and oils—and used 4.7 million gallons in 
middle and last mile operations, up from 286,300 
gallons in 2023. We also expanded use of renewable 
diesel from fulfillment and sort centers in California 
to Oregon and Washington. Amazon India Operations 
entered into a strategic partnership with Hindustan 
Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL)  to push the 
development and adoption of Low Carbon Fuels (LCFs) 
produced from agricultural and agro-industrial waste, 
with the goal of decarbonizing long-haul transportation 
in India. We also transitioned AWS backup generators 
to renewable diesel in parts of Europe and the U.S. and 
piloted this fuel at our Amazon Air Hub in Cincinnati/
Northern Kentucky in ground support equipment.
•	 Hydrogen: Hydrogen fuel vehicles are a promising 
alternative to other fuels, as they produce water vapor 
instead of carbon emissions when combusted. In 
2024, we used 17,800 hydrogen-powered forklifts at 
more than 80 fulfillment centers in North America. In 
Japan and Europe, we began testing fuel-cell trucks 
to evaluate their operational efficiency compared to 
traditional diesel trucks.
•	 Renewable Natural Gas (RNG): In our transportation 
network, we have compressed natural gas vehicles 
(CNGs), which can reduce carbon emissions by at least 
75% compared to diesel when refueled with RNG.14 In 
2024, there were more than 4,400 CNGs on the road 
in our transportation network—an increase of 12% 
compared to 2023—which used 39 million gallons 
of RNG.
Utilizing Micromobility Solutions
We are working to scale micromobility solutions—
such as e-cargo bikes and on-foot deliveries—in our 
transportation network to bring packages to customers 
in more sustainable ways. In 2024, 170 million packages 
were delivered via micromobility solutions globally, up 
from 125 million packages in 2023.
In 2024, Amazon had 70 micromobility hubs—smaller, 
centrally located delivery stations in dense cities—in more 
13
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
than 45 cities across Europe and in New York City in the 
U.S. We added micromobility hubs in London and Norwich 
in the UK, Paris in France, Naples and Florence in Italy, 
Barcelona and Santander in Spain, Berlin and Hamburg 
in Germany, and Belfast in Northern Ireland. In the U.S., 
we continued on-foot deliveries in Manhattan, New York 
City. Amazon also started piloting a new model of e-cargo 
delivery bike in Brooklyn, New York , in November 2024 
that can carry up to 120 packages per trip.
Reducing Embodied Carbon in Our Buildings
We collaborate within the industries we operate to 
address embodied carbon emissions—the emissions 
generated from the manufacture, transportation, 
installation, maintenance, and disposal of building 
materials. By helping to advance innovative, scalable 
solutions, we aim to reduce embodied carbon emissions, 
which are part of our Scope 3 footprint.
We use lower-carbon building materials across our 
buildings portfolio where possible. In 2024, 49 building 
projects across Amazon, including data centers, grocery 
stores, fulfillment centers, and corporate offices, were 
constructed with lower-carbon building materials and 
finishes. These projects avoided at least 77,000 metric  
tons of embodied CO₂e in 2024.
•	 Lower-carbon steel: In 2024, Amazon joined the 
Sustainable Steel Buyers Platform , a coalition 
of leading corporations working to accelerate the 
availability of lower-carbon steel in North America, 
in particular lower-carbon iron making technologies. 
AWS constructed 36 data centers with lower-carbon 
steel in 2024, in addition to 31 in 2023. AWS also 
achieved an industry first by purchasing steel made 
using hydrogen direct reduction from SSAB, a Swedish 
steel company, and using it in one data center’s facade. 
Hydrogen direct reduction is a key technology that could 
help decarbonize the 76.3% of global steel production 
that uses iron ore.15
•	 Lower-carbon concrete: We piloted lower-carbon 
concrete solutions with a number of manufacturers 
in 2024 to explore the use of calcined clay, natural 
pozzolans, as well as cement containing less than 25% 
clinker—a key concrete ingredient that accounts for a 
substantial portion of its embodied carbon emissions.16 
AWS used 9,600 cubic yards of less than 25% clinker 
concrete at a data center in South Bend, Indiana, in the 
U.S. This resulted in 1,500 tons of CO₂e avoided, which 
is a 60% reduction against a 2021 baseline. In March 
2025, this work was recognized as “Slag Cement Project 
of the Year”  by the Slag Cement Association, and 
won a “Concrete Innovations” award from the National 
Ready Mixed Concrete Association. We also used lower-
carbon concrete developed by CarbonCure Technologies, 
which we invested in through our Climate Pledge Fund, 
in 46 Amazon building sites in 2024.17 To date, we have 
used CarbonCure in 86 building sites. We continued to 
promote the use of lower-carbon concrete across our 
industry by working with the Center for Green Market 
Activation and RMI toward a proposed book-and-
claim system for concrete to accelerate demand-side 
initiatives. In January 2024, AWS updated its design 
standards to require the use of concrete with 35% less 
embodied carbon than the industry average in new data 
centers around the world. In 2024, 38 data centers were 
constructed with lower-carbon concrete, in addition to 
36 data centers in 2023.
•	 Mass timber: In 2024, we developed Mass Timber 
Sourcing Guidelines to inform our building materials 
suppliers and building partners about sourcing and 
deploying lower-carbon structural wood. In 2024, eight 
Amazon buildings integrated mass timber structural 
elements in design or construction. We are leveraging 
our learnings from these first mass timber projects and 
exploring additional mass timber opportunities across 
our operations and data center building portfolios.
We continue to track and report the embodied carbon 
of our building construction materials by using the 
Embodied Carbon in Construction Calculator , and we 
ask our key building contractors to do the same. In 2024, 
Amazon collaborated with the UK Chartered Institution 
of Building Services Engineers (CIBSE) and Introba to 
publish Technical Memorandum 65.3 (TM65.3)  outlining 
embodied carbon baselining guidance for the design, 
construction, operation, and/or maintenance of logistics 
centers in Europe. Additionally, Amazon worked with 
the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-
Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) to adapt Technical 
Memorandum 65 for North American building construction 
and helped publish the TM65NA .
Implementing Lower-Carbon Approaches 
to Heating and Cooling
We strive to use lower-carbon options for heating and 
cooling of buildings to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. 
For example, we are switching more buildings to all-electric 
heat pump rooftop units (RTUs), which are more efficient 
than and eliminate on-site combustion. In 2024, we took 
part in the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Buildings 
Commercial Building Heat Pump Accelerator, which aims to 
drive the development and adoption of the next generation 
of heat pump packaged RTUs by 2027.
By the end of 2024, 24 Whole Foods Market stores were 
relying on natural refrigerants in a primary refrigeration 
system. Natural refrigerants refer to refrigerants such as 
ammonia, carbon dioxide, or propane, which are widely 
considered the most sustainable alternatives to HFC 
refrigerants. An additional 20 stores rely on a combination 
of natural refrigerants and other refrigerants in a primary 
refrigeration system. Where possible, we pushed to 
integrate as much natural refrigerant as possible.
Transitioning to Carbon-Free Energy
As the energy needs of our business and customers 
continue to grow, we are continuing to invest in 
renewables and new sources of carbon-free energy that 
can both help power our operations and bring new sources 
of energy to the grid. Our energy portfolio includes 
renewable energy sources such as solar and wind, as well 
as nuclear power, which can be brought online at scale, 
and has a decades-long record of providing a reliable 
source of safe, carbon-free energy for communities 
around the world. We are also expanding battery energy 
storage capacity to collect and store renewable energy to 
use when other energy sources may be unavailable—such 
as at night or during periods of high demand—and to help 
improve grid stability.
We recognize that making the transition to carbon-free 
energy will require embracing and advancing a range 
of technologies and innovations—there is not a 
one-size-fits-all approach. We need to consider all viable 
and scalable solutions. In addition to lowering emissions, 
the transition to carbon-free energy can create real 
economic growth in communities where energy projects 
are built and operate, while encouraging the modernization 
and better management of energy infrastructure. Learn 
more about our global renewable energy projects  and 
our Renewable Energy Methodology 
Solar and Wind Projects
Our approach to expanding our renewable energy 
footprint includes robust investment in utility-scale wind 
and solar projects. We have a strong track record of 
enabling utility-scale renewable energy projects, as one 
of the first corporations to do so in India, Ireland, South 
Africa, Japan, and Indonesia. In 2024, Amazon invested 
in 302 utility-scale wind and solar projects globally, 
including 76 newly operational ones, in 29 countries. As of 
the end of 2024, we had announced 302 power purchase 
agreements (PPA).
14
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Amazon became the world’s largest corporate buyer 
of offshore wind energy  in 2024.18 One of the most 
impactful ways we have done this is by enabling nearly 1.3 
GW of carbon-free energy across five offshore wind farms 
along the coasts of Germany, the Netherlands, and the UK. 
Once each project becomes operational, they are expected 
to produce 5.8 GW hours of carbon-free energy annually—
enough to power 1.6 million average European homes. In 
total, Amazon has announced 52 new renewable energy 
projects in Europe as of the end of January 2025, adding 
2.5 GW of renewable energy capacity to grid in the region, 
for a total renewable energy capacity of 9 GW.
In the U.S., we expanded our renewable energy footprint 
through 37 new solar and wind projects, bringing the total 
to 281 across 30 states. This included investing in projects 
that combine renewable energy with agriculture to bring 
economic benefits to farmers. We are collaborating with 
the renewable energy developer AES  to use Maximo, an 
AI-powered robot, to support building Amazon-enabled 
solar farms , while enhancing safety and precision. 
Across the Asia-Pacific region, Amazon has invested in 
97 renewable energy projects, including 53 in India. In 
Japan, Amazon announced our first onshore wind farm 
and stand-alone utility-scale solar project—a 33 megawatt 
(MW) wind project located in Rokkasho, Aomori Prefecture, 
as well as a 9.5 MW solar farm located in Kudamatsu, 
Yamaguchi Prefecture. Amazon is the largest corporate 
purchaser of renewable energy in Japan, with a total of 
25 projects at the end of 2024.
At the end of 2024, Amazon had 319 rooftop solar 
projects at our fulfillment centers, sortation centers, and 
stores around the globe. These projects avoid roughly 
19.3 million metric tons of CO₂e each year. We brought 
51 new on-site rooftop solar energy systems online in 
2024, for a total capacity of 61 MW. These on-site rooftop 
solar energy systems are estimated to generate 45 GWh 
annually and avoid the equivalent of nearly 17,000 metric 
tons of CO₂e annually.
Data Center Electricity Use Matched by 
Renewable Energy
In 2024, we continued to match 100% of electricity 
consumed in all data center regions with renewable 
energy sources and worked with utilities and regulators on 
green tariffs so that more companies can buy carbon-free 
energy directly from renewable energy projects. In 2024, 
as part of a $10 billion investment for building two new 
data center complexes in Mississippi, AWS announced 
a first-of-its-kind agreement with utility company 
Entergy Mississippi  to enable 650 MW of new renewable 
energy projects in the state over the next three years. 
This investment, along with Amazon’s prior investment in 
Delta Wind, a utility-scale wind farm along the Mississippi 
Delta, is expected to bring a total of 834 MW of new 
carbon-free energy to Mississippi, the equivalent of 
powering over 200,000 U.S. homes.
Battery Storage Solutions
We invest in energy storage to collect and store renewable 
energy for use when other energy sources may be 
unavailable—such as at night or during periods of high 
demand—and to enhance grid stability. By the end of 
2024, Amazon had eight solar energy projects paired with 
battery energy storage systems, representing 2.1 GW 
of capacity, up from 1.9 GW in 2023. In 2024, Amazon 
powered nearly 4,000 hours of our operations from 
energy stored in these batteries.
In 2024, Amazon invested in the Baldy Mesa battery 
storage system , which is monitored through machine 
learning powered by AWS and is used to predict when and 
how the project’s battery unit should charge and discharge 
energy back to the grid, optimizing its performance. We 
signed the first European Union (EU) Battery Energy 
Storage System (BESS) PPA that includes a 4 MW rooftop 
solar photovoltaic system paired with a BESS in Spain. This 
BESS initiative is expected to yield nearly 500 metric tons 
of CO₂e avoided annually and enhanced energy resilience.
Nuclear Energy Sources
Nuclear power is an important part of our carbon-free 
energy strategy, as it can be brought online at scale and 
has a decades-long record of providing reliable, safe, and 
abundant carbon-free energy for communities globally.
In 2024, we signed agreements to support the 
development of nuclear energy projects, including 
enabling the development of Small Modular Reactors  
(SMRs)—advanced nuclear reactors with a small physical 
footprint. This smaller size allows them to be built closer 
to the grid, with faster build times, allowing them to 
come online sooner than traditional reactors. Through 
the Climate Pledge Fund, Amazon led an approximately 
$500 million Series C-1 financing round in X-energy to 
support nuclear technology development. X-energy is 
targeting deployment of up to 960 MW of carbon-free 
energy to the U.S. grid by 2039—which would be the 
largest SMR implementation in the industry. X-energy’s 
Xe-100 SMR technology delivers scalable, cost-effective 
carbon-free energy generation for high-demand industrial 
customers and aims to establish a commercial framework 
for advanced nuclear energy deployment in the private 
sector. We also began working with Energy Northwest on 
a project to develop SMRs.
We complement this work by seeking opportunities to 
support existing nuclear operations. We have signed 
an agreement to build a data center facility near Talen 
Energy’s nuclear facility in Pennsylvania, which will help 
power our operations with carbon-free energy.
Engaging With Suppliers
Working with suppliers to help them reduce emissions is 
critical to addressing climate change. We’ve identified our 
high-emitting suppliers, which represent 50% of our 
Scope 3 emissions, and mobilized our business units 
to drive key supplier decarbonization actions—such as 
setting credible targets, measuring and sharing progress, 
and actively reducing emissions. These suppliers are in a 
number of industries including transportation, building 
construction, IT hardware and devices, as well as products 
and packaging. 
We recognized the need for practical tools to accelerate 
implementation and to help support Amazon’s suppliers 
and value chain partners in their own decarbonization 
efforts. That’s why in July 2024, we launched the 
Sustainability Exchange . The Exchange is a free resource 
hub designed to help organizations of all sizes advance 
their sustainability initiatives. Through the Exchange, 
Amazon is publicly sharing playbooks, case studies, tools, 
Carbon-Free Energy Highlights
•	 100% of electricity consumed by Amazon was matched 
with renewable energy sources in 2024, for the second 
consecutive year
•	 Since 2020, Amazon has been the world’s largest 
corporate purchaser of renewable energy annually
•	 World’s largest corporate buyer of offshore wind energy 
in 2024, according to BloombergNEF
•	 100% of energy used by active Echo, Fire TV, and Ring 
devices worldwide was matched with operational wind 
and solar capacity in 2024
•	 621 total renewable energy projects announced globally 
as of January 2025—including 124 new projects in 
2024—representing 34 GW of carbon-free energy 
capacity, which can produce 91,000 GW hours of  
carbon-free electricity annually
•	 219 solar projects and 83 wind farms, totaling 302 
utility-scale wind and solar projects as of January 2025
•	 319 on-site rooftop solar systems at our fulfillment 
centers and stores as of January 2025
15
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Engaging Our Suppliers on Our Decarbonization Journey
S
et
 T
ar
ge
t
S
ha
re
 P
ro
gr
es
s
R
e
d
uc
e 
E
mi
s
si
on
s
Set Target
Commit to credible reduction targets 
that support reaching net-zero carbon:
This alignment helps to ensure that our supply chain is 
moving in the same direction and at a pace consistent with 
our own goals. By setting credible targets, suppliers commit 
to a concrete path for emissions reduction, creating 
accountability and driving action.
What does this look like?
•	 Join The Climate Pledge or 
make a public commitment 
to reach net-zero carbon  
by 2040 or earlier  
(science-aligned).
•	 Amazon-specific 
commitment to reach  
net-zero carbon by 2040  
or commitment to use 
carbon-free energy.
Share Progress
Measure and regularly report  
performance progress:
This transparency helps to enable suppliers to understand 
their emissions profile, identify hotspots, and execute action 
plans to achieve their decarbonization targets.
What does this look like?
•	 Public disclosure of corporate 
carbon footprint through  
CDP, EcoVadis, or corporate  
Sustainability Report.
•	 Share emissions data  
with Amazon directly.
Reduce Emissions
Take action to reduce emissions over time:
We work with suppliers to identify and implement 
activities that reduce their emissions.
What does this look like?
•	 Adopt carbon-free energy for operations.
•	 Join The Climate Pledge joint action project(s).
•	 Pilot lower-carbon technologies with Amazon.
•	 Visit the Sustainability Exchange for tools to help 
meet target(s).
and resources that have helped us progress toward our 
own climate goals. Topics include carbon measurement, 
transitioning to carbon-free energy, decarbonizing 
buildings and transportation, reducing operational waste, 
and how to purchase high-quality carbon credits. We 
continue to expand and update it regularly—in 2025, we 
included access to content in eight languages, and will 
soon add new regional- and industry-specific content.
We announced a carbon credits service on the 
Sustainability Exchange  in early 2025 to offer high-
quality carbon credits to suppliers with decarbonization 
goals. Credits are only available to companies that have 
set a net-zero carbon emissions target for no later than 
2050, covering Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions; measure and 
publicly report their carbon footprint on a regular basis; 
and commit to implementing decarbonization strategies in 
line with climate science.
In addition, we work to advance industry collaborations 
and engage suppliers across our business. In 2024, 
highlights included:
•	 We developed pilot projects to make it easier for 
suppliers to purchase renewable energy certificates 
and  make progress toward their decarbonization goals. 
IPG, a packaging and protective solutions provider, 
matched 100% of the  electricity to power the majority  
of products sold to Amazon in 2024. Pregis, a packaging 
supplier and Climate Pledge signatory, matched 100% 
of the electricity consumed to power operations that 
produce recyclable paper mailers provided to Amazon
in 2024.
•	 We worked with our top suppliers on carbon 
measurement and reporting to improve the 
accuracy of emissions calculations and help enable 
suppliers and procurement professionals to manage 
carbon performance quantitatively alongside other 
performance metrics.
•	 Whole Foods Market encouraged suppliers to adopt 
climate-smart farming methods by partnering with 
Wolfe’s Neck Center, funding and recruiting stakeholders 
to implement regenerative and organic agriculture 
practices that reduce emissions and improve soil health.
•	 Whole Foods Market collaborated with Windfall Bio, 
a Climate Pledge Fund recipient, to successfully pilot 
its methane-eating microbes with dairy suppliers to 
convert manure emissions, which can be up to 80 times 
more potent than CO₂ emissions, into organic fertilizer.19
•	 Amazon Private Brands held carbon abatement 
workshops for suppliers focused on discussing challenges, 
identifying abatement opportunities, as well as 
collaboratively solving problems across materials, energy, 
sourcing, and packaging. We increased participation from 
10 suppliers in 2023 to 35 in 2024.
•	 Amazon Private Brands held a carbon-free energy forum 
with suppliers in China and Vietnam to promote increased 
use of carbon-free electricity within the Amazon Private 
Brands supply chain. 
•	 Amazon Devices received commitments from 93 suppliers 
in 2024, up from 49 suppliers in 2023, to reduce their 
manufacturing emissions. We also supported 38 Device 
suppliers—representing 80% of our direct manufacturing 
spend for Echo, Kindle, Fire tablet, Fire TV, Ring, Blink, 
and eero devices and accessories—in developing 
renewable energy plans.
•	 AWS partnered with suppliers across semiconductor and 
electronics manufacturing industries to set emission 
reductions roadmaps and increase the adoption of 
carbon-free electricity. AWS is also a member of SEMI’s 
Semiconductor Climate Consortium (SCC) and worked to 
increase access to carbon-free power and decarbonization 
standards and tools for the semiconductor industry.
16
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
 Climate 
theclimatepledge.com (opens in a new tab).
The Climate Pledge
by the Numbers
At the end of 2024, The Climate Pledge represented:
549
signatories
46
countries 60
industries
See a full list of signatories at theclimatepledge.com 
Accelerating Decarbonization 
beyond Our Own Business
Catalyzing Industry Action and Innovation 
through The Climate Pledge
The Climate Pledge
The Climate Pledge, which we co-founded in 2019, 
is a commitment to reach net-zero carbon emissions 
across our global operations by 2040. It brings together 
companies from around the world to drive collective 
action, cross-sector collaboration, and engagement 
in initiatives that encourage industry action toward 
decarbonization. Signatories commit to regular GHG 
reporting, making operational changes to decarbonize 
their business, and neutralizing remaining emissions with 
credible offsets.
In 2024, two of Amazon’s high-emitting suppliers, Crane 
Worldwide Logistics and Shorr Packaging, signed The 
Climate Pledge, along with STS Group. The Pledge also 
welcomed 76 new companies, including Stella McCartney, 
DL1961, Saie, and Dr. Bronner’s. In total, The Pledge 
included 549 companies in 46 countries and 60 industries 
as signatories at the end of 2024.
With a growing number of signatories, the focus of the 
Climate Pledge shifted in 2024 to working on joint action, 
small working groups, and addressing shared industry 
challenges. The Science Club Cohort, for example, addresses 
measurement challenges. In 2024, The Climate Pledge 
supported the launch of six new joint action projects , 
with participation from 16 signatories.
Laneshift , a public-private initiative under The Climate 
Pledge, was launched in 2023 with C40 Cities through a 
$10 million investment. This initiative aims to accelerate 
the transition to zero-tailpipe-emission electric trucks and 
charging infrastructure across cities in India, Brazil, and 
Mexico—and help decarbonize the road freight industry, 
which currently accounts for 5% of global emissions.20
In 2024, Laneshift-Latin America worked with the 
International Finance Corporation  on market sounding 
and with regional multilateral development banks to 
accelerate deals in the EV freight sector. Also, Laneshift-
India launched a 370 km EV freight corridor  project 
between Bengaluru and Chennai, marking the first step 
toward a network of connected EV freight highways in 
India. Electrifying the trucking sector in India is essential, 
since trucking represents 3% of vehicles on India’s roads 
but is responsible for 34% of CO₂ tailpipe emissions. 
Laneshift-India expects to use the data from six months 
of route testing to create an EV freight roadmap business 
case, in an effort to reduce tailpipe emissions in the region.
The Climate Pledge joined with the Center for Green 
Market Activation and RMI in 2024 to launch a new 
lower-carbon concrete buyers alliance.21 The alliance aims 
to use a book-and-claim system to decouple the physical 
product from its environmental attributes, allowing 
companies to claim those benefits in advance of delivery. 
In 2024, nine signatories, along with several industry 
partners, committed to co-design the alliance, which aims 
to send demand signals to concrete producers to adopt 
new technologies for companies to procure lower-carbon 
concrete at scale.22
The Climate Pledge announced project JOULE  (Joint 
Operations Unifying Last-Mile Electrification) in 2024, 
aiming to build a network of electric vehicle (EV) charging 
stations in Bengaluru, India. By 2030, all the electricity 
used by the charging stations is expected to be matched 
with renewable energy, amounting to an estimated 
6.2 MW of renewable energy capacity. Over the same 
timeframe, the project is expected to support 5,500 EVs 
and spur an investment of $2.65 million into the sector.
Advancing Industry Decarbonization
To catalyze collective action on decarbonization, we share 
the expertise and resources we have developed as part of 
our own decarbonization efforts.
In 2024, we launched the Amazon Science Exchange , 
to address the critical technology gaps that impede 
Amazon and our collaborators from meeting our 
sustainability goals. Our current work focuses on 
packaging materials, building materials, and alternative 
fuels. Through our Amazon Science Exchange website, 
we share science-based models to help others identify 
the most promising technological solutions and guide 
decision-making.
Through the Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative 
(ASDI) , we enhance access to data to accelerate 
sustainability research, innovation, and collaboration by 
reducing the cost and time required to acquire and analyze 
high-value datasets. These datasets are from public and 
private sectors, including those related to weather, climate, 
water, agriculture, air quality, and more, empowering 
organizations to drive real world sustainability progress. 
One such example is OCEARCH , which shares its satellite 
telemetry information about shark movements through 
ASDI to advance global research on ocean health.
In addition, AWS’s Customer Carbon Footprint Tool  
allows customers to track, measure, review, and forecast 
the estimated carbon emissions generated from AWS 
usage. The tool helps our customers monitor the estimated 
carbon emissions generated by AWS resources across a 
number of services, regions, and time periods, and this 
transparency allows customers to identify areas of higher 
emissions and implement targeted optimizations to 
reduce their footprint.
We continued to advocate for updated carbon accounting 
guidelines for the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as a 
co-founder of the Emissions First Partnership, a coalition 
committed to modernizing GHG accounting standards 
for the power sector. This work aims to accelerate grid 
decarbonization to mitigate the worst effects of climate 
change by supporting high-impact energy projects and 
driving investments in renewable energy, battery storage, 
or other mitigation solutions. We have also contributed to 
the Advanced and Indirect Mitigation Platform, a coalition 
working to formalize accounting standards for 
market-based emissions reductions.
Investing in Innovation through The Climate 
Pledge Fund
We are accelerating and scaling new decarbonization 
technologies that will help enable Amazon—and other 
companies—to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 
17
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
adopting ready-to-scale solutions, investing in emerging 
technologies, and through direct funding.
The Climate Pledge Fund , a $2 billion venture  
investment program that specifically targets companies 
operating in hard-to-abate sectors, is central to our 
approach. The goal of The Climate Pledge Fund is to 
support solutions that could accelerate and lower the 
overall cost to decarbonize Amazon and the broader 
economy. In 2024, The Climate Pledge Fund reached a 
milestone of five years of investments, making 12  
new and follow-on investments  in multiple industry 
sectors that affect climate change: transportation and 
logistics; energy generation, storage, and utilization; 
buildings; manufacturing and materials; the circular 
economy; food and agriculture; carbon removal; and water. 
This brings The Climate Pledge Fund’s total investment 
portfolio to 32 companies. Recent investments include:
• Forum Mobility, which provides accessible
zero-tailpipe-emission trucking solutions for drayage in
California, including charging infrastructure and Class
8 zero-tailpipe-emission electric trucks. Forum Mobility
is developing a network of charging depots around
the Ports of Oakland, Los Angeles, and Long Beach
in California, and Seattle, and Tacoma in Washington
state, and along common trucking routes to warehouse
destinations. Forum Mobility also provided the charging
infrastructure for Amazon’s first electric heavy-duty
trucks in our ocean freight operations.
• Glacier, an AI and robotics company, uses AI-powered
robots to automate sorting recyclable materials and
collect real-time data on recycling streams for recycling
companies and consumer brands. Glacier also supports
Amazon in testing new biomaterials in applications
where we have more limited sustainability solutions,
such as some flexible plastics, and then recycling them.
• Subeca, a company that offers a simple and secure
device that uses wireless networks such as LoRaWAN and
Amazon Sidewalk to assist Amazon, AWS, and utilities
in gathering timely and reliable data to manage water 
use without relying on traditional cellular or building 
network infrastructure. As a result, users can more easily 
monitor and control resources and detect water leaks. 
By utilizing Subeca’s single-device ultrasonic smart water 
meter, Amazon can improve the efficiency of its water 
use and reduce water loss across its fulfillment centers, 
grocery stores, offices, and data centers.
As part of The Climate Pledge Fund’s broader commitment 
to invest $50 million in climate initiatives led by women, 
we invested in three new female-founded and female-led 
companies in 2024, one of which is Paebbl. Paebbl converts 
CO₂ into carbon-storing building materials, transforming 
the built environment into a carbon sink. Concrete is the 
world’s second most used material, and Paebbl aims to 
future-proof its global supply chain by locking carbon into 
everyday structures. AWS intends to trial Paebbl’s material 
in the construction of one of its European data centers.
Supporting Policies That Drive 
Decarbonization
Public policy can accelerate the deployment of emerging 
lower-carbon technologies necessary to achieve global 
decarbonization. A stable regulatory environment 
supports long-term progress. Our global public policy 
team works with policymakers, multilateral organizations, 
industry associations, coalitions, and other partners to 
accelerate decarbonization by scaling lower-emission 
fuels, advancing zero-tailpipe-emission vehicle 
deployment and associated infrastructure, driving the 
deployment of carbon-free energy, modernizing the grid, 
accelerating lower-carbon technologies, advancing circular 
economy policies, and more.
In 2024, we continued our advocacy for expanding the 
deployment of carbon-free energy and creating pathways 
for corporate procurement of carbon-free energy. We 
collaborate with organizations such as CEBA, Asia Clean 
Energy Coalition (ACEC) and RE-Source to encourage these 
policy changes around the world. For example, we worked 
with regulators in Indonesia and Thailand to pioneer 
utility green tariffs. In Europe, we supported ambitious 
carbon emission reduction targets for newly registered 
heavy-duty vehicles to accelerate deployment of  
zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles at scale. In the U.S., we 
worked with the Low Carbon Fuels Coalition to continue 
our support for low-carbon fuels. Further, we engaged 
in joint action with organizations such as the Center for 
Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES), the Cambridge 
Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL) Corporate 
Leaders Groups in the UK (CLG UK) and Europe (CLG 
Europe), and Japan Climate Leaders’ Partnership (JCPL)  
to support innovation and decarbonization.
Learn more about how we advocate for issues 
that matter 
Carbon Neutralization
Amazon’s carbon neutralization efforts are currently 
focused on three priorities: reducing deforestation, 
advancing the removal of carbon from the atmosphere 
with nature-based solutions, and scaling up carbon 
removal technologies. Across these areas, Amazon is 
using a range of strategies, including direct investment, 
advance purchase agreements, coalition building, new 
methodology development, and technological innovation, 
to scale outcomes and advance carbon credit quality.23 
Our approach is detailed in our Carbon Neutralization 
Methodology 
.
Reducing Deforestation
Tropical forests, which cover 45% of the world’s forested 
areas, play a crucial role in regulating global climate 
patterns, according to the International Panel on Climate 
Change.24 As a result, mobilizing financing to enable 
countries to protect their tropical rainforests is a key  
focus of our carbon neutralization and broader 
biodiversity efforts.
In 2021, we made an ambitious pledge to protect nature 
and mitigate climate change through co-founding the 
Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest Finance (LEAF) 
Coalition . The proceeds support curbing deforestation 
and share the economic benefits with Indigenous peoples, 
traditional communities, and family farmers.
Learn more about how we preserve biodiversity  and 
source better materials in our commodities supply chains 
Advancing the Removal of Carbon from the 
Atmosphere with Nature-Based Solutions
Nature-based carbon removal projects involve the 
extraction and retention of atmospheric CO₂ by natural 
and managed ecosystems. When effectively implemented, 
these projects can create benefits such as wildlife habitat, 
promote biodiversity, improve water quality, and reduce 
flood risk.
As part of an independent working group composed 
of carbon market experts, scientists, and conservation 
professionals, representatives from Amazon contributed 
to the development of the ABACUS  label. It identifies 
credits that reflect a rigorous set of principles and 
requirements for quantifying the climate benefits of 
restoration projects. In 2024, the label was formally 
approved and released by Verra, the mission-driven 
nonprofit that serves as a leading standards-setter for  
the voluntary carbon market.
Scaling Up Carbon Removal Technologies
Direct air capture (DAC), which chemically scrubs CO₂ from 
the air and then stores it deep underground or uses it in 
applications such as building materials and lower-carbon 
fuels, is an important technology in the fight against 
climate change. Amazon is accelerating and scaling the 
development of DAC solutions  by investing in and 
committing to purchase carbon removal credits produced 
by DAC technology.
18
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Waste and 
Circularity
Our Approach
Our waste hierarchy sets our guiding principles for 
preventing, managing, and reducing waste. Amazon 
has programs in place to optimize our inventory, reduce 
food surplus, and source materials that help us prevent 
waste from the start. Where possible, we look for ways 
to reduce, reuse, recycle, or compost these materials. 
When waste is unavoidable, our priority is to recycle it, 
minimizing what is sent to landfill and incineration.
We work hard to make it easy for customers to discover 
products they love. They usually do, but as with any 
retailer, sometimes customers want to return something 
that they purchased from us. When returns happen, 
Amazon strives to give items a second life through resale, 
donation, or recycling—in that order of priority. Returned 
items undergo inspection to determine whether they 
can be resold. We aim to donate items that cannot be 
sold, but when they are not suitable for sale, resale, or 
donation, often due to damage or expiration, we prioritize 
their recycling.
We know that avoiding waste is an ongoing process 
and that we cannot do it on our own. We engage with 
suppliers to reduce waste related to our products, partner 
with other organizations to scale efforts to transition to a 
more circular economy, and work with local municipalities 
to improve recycling infrastructure where we can.
Our Progress
Waste Prevention
We view waste as a defect, aiming to prevent it whenever 
possible. We implement a variety of waste prevention 
efforts across Amazon—from our retail sites and 
grocery stores to our corporate offices, data centers, and 
fulfillment centers. This includes a focus on improving 
product handling to reduce damage and supporting 
customers in setting up, using, and repairing the products 
they buy. We also integrate circular practices to extend 
the useful life of products and assets, and when products 
are returned, we assess, grade, and repair them as needed 
to be relisted, resold, or redistributed.
Preventing Product Waste in Our 
Fulfillment Centers
When it comes to product inventory, Amazon prioritizes 
waste prevention by enabling customers to make more 
informed shopping decisions—which can reduce customer 
returns—and lowering the number of products damaged 
in handling. Specifically, our efforts include:
•	 Reducing overstock: Before removing overstock from 
our inventory, we try to sell it at a discount on Amazon
Outlet . If we can’t, we return the inventory to vendors 
or sell it to wholesalers to be offered on secondary 
markets. In 2024, we sold 68 million retail sellers’ items 
on Amazon Outlet.
•	 Reducing damage: We take proactive measures to 
safeguard products from damage during transportation 
and handling. In 2024, we reduced the percentage of 
damaged items within Amazon’s operations by 29% 
compared to 2023.
•	 Expanding our repair programs: When possible, we 
send damaged products for repair to enable resale. 
In 2024, our top repair categories included laptops, 
tablets, robotic vacuums, and espresso machines.
•	 Continuing our product lifecycle support: This program 
provides customers with the support needed to use the 
products they purchased, including how to configure 
products or repair tips when necessary. In 2024, we 
avoided 14 million product returns with this program,  
a 25% increase compared to 2023.
•	 Reselling customer returns: We carefully inspect 
products that are returned at our Amazon return centers. 
If a returned product meets Amazon’s high bar for sale 
as new, we relist it.
•	 Redistributing through Amazon Resale: Items that are 
ineligible for relisting as new are graded, tested, and 
assessed to be offered on Amazon Resale . Amazon 
Resale offers a range of high-quality, used products 
at reduced prices, from tech like computers, tablets, 
Amazon devices, unlocked phones, and TVs to home 
essentials like furniture, kitchen appliances, lawn and 
garden care, home improvement tools, and pet supplies. 
Customers see a condition (e.g., Like New, Very Good, 
Good, or Acceptable) and reason(s) for the condition 
(e.g., missing a user manual or cosmetic damage), 
allowing them to make an informed purchasing decision.
•	 Providing ReCommerce Services for independent 
third-party sellers: Through our ReCommerce Services, 
we offer resale, liquidation, and donation services to 
independent third-party sellers. We grade sellers’ 
Goal
Reduce food waste by 50% across U.S. 
and Europe operations by 203025
81M
Meals-equivalent donated globally– 
60M in the U.S. and 21M in Europe
Actions
85%
Landfill diversion rate, a measure 
of the waste we successfully divert 
to recycling and what is sent to 
incineration with energy recovery and 
away from landfill, which was up from 
84% in 2023 and 82% in 202226
83%
Waste diversion rate, a measure of the 
waste that we successfully divert to 
recycling or other material-recovery 
processes (such as composting) and 
away from landfill and incineration, 
which was up from 82% in 2023 
and 79% in 2022
68M
Retail sellers’ items sold on our 
Amazon Outlet storefront
14M
Returns avoided, a 25% increase 
compared to 2023
166M+
Items we donated or supported our 
sellers in donating worldwide
16%
Of spare parts sourced by AWS were 
from its own reuse inventory
19
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
returned items and enable recovery through programs 
such as grade and resell or donation. In 2024, we 
helped sellers resell or donate nearly 391 million of 
their items in the U.S. and Europe.
•	 Donation: We donate items that are safe to use but 
that remain in our inventory if we are unable to repair 
or resell them. In 2024, we donated or supported our 
sellers in donating over 166 million items worldwide.
Learn more about our efforts to provide more sustainable 
products  and optimize packaging 
Preventing Food Waste in Grocery Stores and 
Distribution Centers
Food waste represents lost natural resources and nutrition 
and is a significant contributor of greenhouse gas 
emissions.27 That’s why Amazon has set a goal to reduce 
food waste by 50% by 2030 across our U.S. and Europe 
operations. We prioritize reducing surplus inventory, and 
when that is not possible, we focus on donation to reduce 
waste generated. In 2024, the equivalent of 81 million 
meals were donated globally—60 million in the U.S. and 
21 million in Europe. Any remaining food waste follows 
the hierarchy and as much is diverted to organic waste 
treatment as possible.
We continue to explore new ways of reducing food loss and 
waste as we work toward our 2030 goal. To continue driving 
progress at scale, Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods Market 
became members of the U.S. Food Waste Pact , a joint 
initiative between ReFED and World Wildlife Fund. In joining 
this national agreement, we are accelerating progress 
toward our goals under a proven framework. This year, we 
actively contributed food waste data to ReFED for inclusion 
in the U.S. Food Waste Pact’s “Progress In Reducing Food 
Waste: A Data Report from the Pacific Coast Food Waste 
Commitment and the U.S. Food Waste Pact” as part of 
our commitment. This collaboration supports our ongoing 
efforts to optimize inventory management and prioritize 
sustainable practices in food retail.
In 2024, Whole Foods Market launched a program with 
Too Good To Go , a social impact company that has 
created a marketplace app for surplus food. Through 
this program, Too Good To Go’s app enables customers 
to access high-quality food at discounted prices at 536 
Whole Foods Market stores across the U.S. Whole Foods 
Market diverted an equivalent of 636,000 meals from 
waste in the U.S. as part of this effort in 2024, and we 
are expanding this service to Amazon Fresh locations in 
the U.S. Additionally, we maintain strong relationships 
with food charities across our grocery stores, fulfillment 
centers, and other retail sites to support ongoing 
donation programs for surplus food.
When food cannot be donated or offered to customers 
at a discounted price at Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods 
Market stores, we aim to divert it via organic waste 
treatment programs, such as composting. In 2024, we 
continued to implement and expand these efforts at 612 
locations and diverted 108,300 tons of food waste.
Learn more about how we support food donations, 
delivery, and distribution 
Preventing Office and Operational Material 
Waste in Buildings
To run our operations, we use operational materials and 
equipment such as packaging to transport products 
between fulfillment centers, pallets to move products 
within fulfillment centers, office furniture, storage racks, 
electronic equipment, and conveyor systems. We aim to 
prevent the waste associated with these materials and 
equipment through the following methods:
•	 Implementing circular design practices: We focus on 
developing modular equipment and components that 
enhance operational efficiency while extending the 
useful life of assets. We use innovative design principles 
to create versatile equipment that can be easily 
repurposed for multiple uses, reducing material waste 
and potential losses. This modular approach can also 
enable easier maintenance, repairs, and adaptability for 
different operational needs. This results in more resilient 
infrastructure where components can be efficiently 
reused, repaired, or reconfigured, rather than replaced.
•	 Reducing single-use items and materials: We take a 
systematic approach to reducing single-use materials 
across our operations. Cross-functional working groups 
collaborate to identify replacement opportunities and 
source more environmentally efficient, lower-waste 
solutions that meet our operating requirements. We 
also use a detailed waste stream analysis to evaluate 
the environmental impact of single-use materials and 
prioritize circular solutions. In 2024, we expanded the 
use of universal plastic pallets and GoCarts (a reusable 
cart system that replaces pallets and cardboard 
containers) and avoided the use of 85 million wood 
pallets. Across our corporate offices, we are increasingly 
transitioning away from single-use cutlery, plates, and 
cups and replacing them with reusable alternatives.
•	 Extending asset life through reuse and donations: We 
have established programs and built tools to enable the 
repurposing, donation, and responsible management 
of unused assets across Amazon. These programs and 
tools facilitate the storage, tracking, and transfer of idle 
assets between Amazon sites, as well as coordination 
with charities interested in items no longer used by 
our teams. In 2024, we repurposed 310,000 assets and 
materials from these programs.
Preventing Hardware and Server Waste in  
Data Centers
In 2024, AWS enhanced its circular economy strategy, 
which focuses on three core pillars:
•	 Design better: AWS unlocks its greatest potential for 
circularity through better design practices—including 
avoiding excess materials, enabling repair and reuse, and 
integrating recycled content from the start. In addition  
to using 30% recycled or bio-based plastics in server rack 
components, AWS is also exploring ways that better 
design can help extend the lifespan of hardware and 
equipment, further scale repair and reuse, and increase 
materials recovery at end of use.
•	 Operate longer: AWS seeks to use equipment for as 
long as operationally efficient. AWS prioritizes keeping 
functional drives in use for as long as possible, avoiding 
early retirement of healthy and working hard drives. 
This helps AWS power fewer racks with optimized 
performance, replace aging hardware, and save water 
and energy. As a result, AWS only needs to send 
broken drives for recycling, avoiding early retirement 
of healthy and working hard drives on the same rack. 
Since 2023, AWS has avoided the purchase of more 
than 500,000 new hard drives, reducing the associated 
carbon footprint, costs, and waste.
•	 Recover more: AWS aims to continually improve repair, 
reuse, and recycling practices to recover more value 
from decommissioned assets. AWS uses Amazon’s 
re:Cycle Reverse Logistics hubs  to assess, repair, and 
recirculate used equipment into inventory or sell it to 
third parties for reuse. To drive circularity and increase 
landfill diversion, AWS sends racks to these hubs for 
secure decommissioning of the hardware in the racks 
before recirculation into AWS inventory, resale into the 
secondary market, or recycling. In 2024, 11.5 million 
components were sold on the secondary market through 
our re:Cycle Reverse Logistics hubs. Additionally, these 
reverse logistics hubs have enabled AWS to source 16% 
of spare parts from its own reuse inventory, abating 
110,000 tons of carbon emissions by avoiding purchase 
of new parts. In October 2024, Amazon announced an 
expansion of the re:Cycle Ireland Hub  to continue 
scaling this program. In 2024, the facility also earned 
UL Solutions’ highest Zero Waste certification (Platinum 
level) by diverting 100% of processed equipment from 
landfills, including 99% through reuse by AWS, resale 
into the secondary market, or recycling, and 1% to 
Thermal Processing with Energy Recovery.
20
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
How We Manage and 
Prevent Waste
This hierarchy is an industry framework that guides 
our approach to managing and preventing waste.      
It moves from the most preferred option at the top 
to the least preferred at the bottom. Materials in this 
hierarchy may be recycled, reclaimed, or otherwise 
reused in some way and thus, may not end up as 
waste in landfills. We use this framework to better 
manage our waste, pursuing opportunities that are 
more preferred before moving down the hierarchy.
Prevent
We improve product and packaging design, 
inventory management, materials sourcing, 
and resource use to help prevent waste 
from the start.
Reduce
We pursue avenues such as increased product 
durability and resale to reduce waste. We also 
work to prevent waste generation by helping 
customers make informed decisions, which 
reduces product returns, and offer several 
ways for them to support product circularity.
Reuse
We repair, repurpose, and donate 
usable items where possible.
Waste
85%
Landfill 
Diversion Rate
83%
Waste 
Diversion Rate
Recycle
We recycle and compost to recover 
raw materials where possible, including 
food waste.
2%
Incineration with
Energy Recovery
Incineration with Energy Recovery
Where prevention, reduction, reuse,
or recycling are not possible, we target 
energy recovery.
15%
Landfill and Incineration
without Energy Recovery
Landfill and Incineration 
without Energy Recovery
Both landfill and incineration without energy 
recovery are disposal methods strictly used 
as a last resort for waste that is either 
ineligible for or cannot be diverted to better 
recovery pathways.*
*For example, some regulated waste streams, like 
hazardous waste and medical waste, may be ineligible 
for recovery pathways, due to risks to human health 
and the environment.
Waste Diversion
When we are unable to prevent waste, we seek to divert 
it to the highest recovery option available. In doing so, 
we reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills and 
incineration. Our retail operations cover our largest 
materials footprint, with transportation and handling 
materials (such as cardboard, plastic, pallets, racks, totes, 
etc.) representing our main waste streams. Cardboard 
and wood represent 65% of Amazon’s operational waste 
footprint, and almost 100% is recycled.
We track our waste diversion rate to measure progress 
in waste management efforts. This metric reflects waste 
diverted from landfills and incineration through recycling, 
composting, and other material recovery processes. In 
2024, we achieved an 83% diversion rate, up from 82% in 
2023 and 79% in 2022.
We also measure our landfill diversion rate, which 
tracks materials diverted from landfill via recycling and 
incineration with energy recovery. In 2024, our landfill 
diversion rate was 85%, up from 84% in 2023 and 82% 
in 2022.
Our progress is driven by four focus areas:
•	 Establishing on-site materials separation and 
recovery programs: We offer comprehensive employee 
training and clear sorting guidelines in an effort to 
maximize waste separation potential. Our systems are 
designed to separate and consolidate materials into their 
respective collection locations to optimize pick up and 
recycling by our service providers.
•	 Working with specialized waste service providers that 
offer recycling and recovery solutions: We aim to select 
service providers that prioritize recycling over landfill 
and incineration, and we have established contractual 
requirements for waste diversion and data reporting to 
support our overall waste management objectives.
•	 Conducting frequent waste characterization audits: 
We seek to enhance waste management through 
comprehensive characterization programs on unknown/
mixed waste materials that limit recyclability. These 
assessments provide crucial insights into waste streams 
and inform priority areas for recycling improvements.
•	 Collaborating with service providers and industry 
experts to scale innovative solutions:
	
−Hard-to-recycle materials: We actively work to 
develop solutions for hard-to-recycle materials 
through industry collaborations and innovative 
pilots. In 2024, we collaborated with UPM Raflatac’s 
RafCycle service to launch a recycling solution for 
the paper backing from our adhesive labels used 
throughout operations across our North American 
fulfillment sites. It is also in place in several of our 
European facilities. Implementing this solution 
increased recycling of this material by 16% compared 
to 2023. We plan to scale it further across our North 
American operations in the future.
	
−Waste sortation: We engage with waste technology 
companies developing artificial intelligence (AI) and 
computer vision solutions to improve waste sortation 
and avoid contamination of different waste streams, 
which can block recycling efforts. One example is our 
investment in the AI and robotics company Glacier  
through The Climate Pledge Fund. In 2024, we 
worked with Glacier to test its AI-enabled waste 
sorting technology for contamination monitoring 
in cardboard streams, to drive optimal recycling of 
cardboard waste at Amazon fulfillment centers, and 
the identification of newly developed bio-based 
packaging materials, to enable future sortation of 
these materials from mixed streams.
21
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Packaging
Our Approach
Amazon delivers millions of packages every day, and we 
prioritize getting orders into the hands of our customers 
as quickly, safely, and with the least amount of packaging 
possible. Using a science-based approach, we strive to 
provide right-sized, recyclable, and scalable packaging 
solutions that reduce waste.
Our packaging strategy is guided by ongoing learning and 
innovation, and rooted in four pillars:
•	 Avoid: We avoid additional packaging whenever possible 
by shipping products in their original packaging.
•	 Optimize: When we need to use supplemental 
packaging, we prioritize lighter, right-sized options 
and use artificial intelligence (AI) to identify additional 
optimization opportunities.
•	 Transform: We prioritize materials that are household 
recyclable and reduce single-use plastic packaging.
•	 Innovate: We work across the public and private 
sectors to create and scale more sustainable packaging 
solutions and improve recycling infrastructure globally.
Our Progress
Avoid
When it comes to packaging, we start with protecting 
the product to ensure it arrives undamaged. From there, 
we find ways to use less packaging, while prioritizing 
household recyclable materials. Many products can 
be shipped safely without protection from additional 
Amazon delivery bags or boxes, which is the intention of 
our Ships in Product Packaging program . Through this 
program, we deliver eligible items in the manufacturers’ 
original packaging without supplemental Amazon delivery 
packaging, allowing us to avoid unnecessary material use 
and reduce the weight of deliveries.
For a product to qualify for Ships in Product Packaging, 
it must first meet our standards for safety and customer 
experience. We continually work to increase the number 
of eligible products that can be shipped through this 
program, including some of the most complex products to 
transport—such as TVs, appliances, and furniture. In 2024, 
12% of Amazon packages globally were shipped without 
additional packaging, the same as for 2023. Since 2020, 
over 6 billion shipments have been delivered with only their 
original packaging and a shipping label  in North America 
and Europe. This progress reflects our continued efforts 
to expand product eligibility through identifying new 
qualifying products; collaborating with selling partners 
to test and design new packaging; and implementing our 
regionalization approach, which shortens delivery routes 
and lessens the potential risk of damage, where possible.
In February 2024, we allowed Fulfillment by Amazon sellers 
to self-enroll in Ships in Product Packaging program in 
North America and Europe, in line with Amazon’s own 
retail practices. This led to nearly 2 million new seller 
products becoming certified to ship in their own product 
packaging in North America and Europe through seller 
engagement, machine learning, and product testing in 
2024. In total, nearly 18 million unique products qualified 
and were shipped to customers in 2024 in North America 
and Europe.
As this program expands, we are creating incentives 
in certain regions to shift to packageless delivery and 
working with others to improve packaging. In 2024, 
Amazon collaborated with leading brands including 
Nestlé, Unilever, and SC Johnson to advance sustainable 
e-commerce packaging. These partnerships focused on 
identifying opportunities to reduce packaging complexity 
and eliminate unnecessary materials, supporting shared 
goals around environmental responsibility and innovation. 
In 2024, we partnered with SC Johnson to redesign its 
Method body wash packaging to make it eligible for 
the Ships in Product Packaging program. The redesign 
reduced the number of packaging components from three 
to one, eliminating secondary plastic packaging in the 
process. The redesign also helped decrease the overall 
packaging volume by 63%.
Optimize
We strive to keep our packaging lightweight and minimal 
while ensuring deliveries reach customers undamaged. 
Lighter, more flexible, and right-sized packaging reduces 
delivery emissions per package by using less material 
and taking up less space in delivery vehicles, which 
enables us to make more deliveries with fewer trucks.  
When possible, Amazon uses lightweight packaging by 
prioritizing flexible paper bags and envelopes. In the U.S. 
and Europe, these flexible options are up to 90% lighter 
than similar-sized, rigid cardboard boxes, and since 2015, 
we have avoided 4.2 million metric tons of packaging 
materials in North America and Europe.
We collaborate with organizations throughout our value 
chain to accelerate the creation of optimized packaging 
solutions. For example, Amazon collaborated with Mondi , 
a leading innovator of more sustainable packaging and 
paper products, to develop a fully paper-based, recyclable 
mailer with a protective paper lining, which scaled across 
our European operations in 2024. The newly designed 
envelope provides an alternative to plastic-based bubble 
wrap and can offer protection for a single product or 
multiple items.
Actions
12%
Of packages globally shipped 
without additional Amazon 
packaging as part of the Ships in 
Product Packaging program28, 29
Nearly
18M
Unique products certified for 
the Ships in Product Packaging 
program and shipped to 
customers, with nearly 2 million 
new products becoming certified
37%
Of shipments in North 
America contained single-use 
plastic delivery packaging, an 
improvement from 65% in 2023
134M
Single-use plastic bags avoided 
from automated packaging 
machines across North America 
fulfillment centers
4.2M
Metric tons of packaging 
materials avoided since 2015
16.4%
Reduction in single-use plastic 
delivery packaging globally
22
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
We also utilize AI machine learning to determine the 
safest and most efficient packaging  for the hundreds of 
millions of products we sell and the near-infinite number 
of order combinations possible. This includes an AI model 
that analyzes a variety of product features, including 
shape and durability as well as customer feedback, to 
determine the optimal packaging for different shipments.
Transform
Amazon is working to transform our delivery packaging 
by reducing our use of single-use plastic packaging in 
favor of household-recyclable alternatives. Our packaging 
engineers have been researching and experimenting for 
years to identify alternative packaging solutions that are 
easier for customers to recycle at home. In finding and 
applying these solutions, we can systematically reduce 
our use of single-use plastic. In addition, we are further 
supporting the circular economy by increasing the use of 
post-consumer recycled content in our delivery packaging.
Through these efforts, we have avoided 152,062 metric 
tons of single-use plastic globally since 2020. In 2024, 
we reduced our total plastic packaging globally by 
16.4%, from 88,698 metric tons in 2023 to 74,137 metric 
tons in 2024. This progress stems from reductions in 
single-use plastics products at our biggest fulfillment 
sites, including the removal of 100% of plastic air 
pillows from delivery packaging at all North American 
fulfillment centers and an overall increase in our use of 
paper packaging solutions. We also continue to retrofit 
our automated packing machines  to create 
made-to-fit paper bags across fulfillment centers in the 
U.S. and Europe. In North America in 2024, we avoided 
134 million plastic bags, and 56% of fulfillment centers 
in North America did not ship plastic delivery packaging. 
As a result, we saw a significant year-over-year decrease 
in the number of shipments that contained single-use 
plastic delivery packaging in North America, from 65% of 
shipments in 2023 to 37% in 2024.
We also consider localized, country-specific challenges 
and how to solve them as part of our ongoing approach to 
reduce the use of single-use plastics in favor of recyclable 
materials. We are continuing to extend these efforts 
to shipments from Brazil, Egypt, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, 
Singapore, South Africa, and the United Arab Emirates. 
Where we cannot yet eliminate single-use plastic, we are 
working to increase the percentage of recycled content in 
our plastic consumables.
We also work with suppliers to incorporate more  
post-consumer materials in our paper-based packaging 
suite. For example, we are working with several packaging 
suppliers in North America and Europe that use 100% 
recycled content. The rest of our paper is sourced based 
on paper grade and performance needs, prioritizing local 
sourcing where possible.
Increasing the Recyclability of 
Device Packaging
Amazon’s strategy to optimize and increase the 
recyclability of packaging extends to our products and 
devices. We are committed to increasing our use of 
recyclable device packaging and finding recyclable solutions 
for items that require additional protection during shipping. 
Learn more about our approach to product and product 
packaging design 
Innovate
We work with industry peers and collaborators to 
accelerate the innovation and deployment of more 
sustainable packaging solutions, such as our work with 
the Sustainable Packaging Coalition and The Recycling 
Partnership. These collaborations improve and scale 
recycling infrastructure, design new materials, and 
discover ways of recycling them.
Amazon 2024 Delivery Packaging 
by Type and Region
*Amazon has removed single-use plastic delivery packaging from its European distribution network.
Packaging Types
Europe*
North America
Rest of World
10%
49%
41%
13%
50%
37%
6%
58%
35%
9%
47%
44%
13%
51%
36%
8%
53%
Breakdown by Region
2023
2023
2023
2024
2024
2024
12%
50%
38%
12%
50%
38%
Global Breakdown
2023
2024
39%
Ships in Product 
Packaging 
Flexibles
Plastic or Paper
Cardboard boxes
23
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Single-Use Plastic Packaging by Region*
Single-Use Plastic Packaging Used (MT)
Region
2023
2024
% Change YoY
Europe
877
894
1.9%
North America
83,513
68,679
-17.8%
Rest of World
4,308
4,564
5.9%
Global Total
88,698
74,137
-16.4%
Single-Use Plastic Packaging Avoided since 2020 (MT)
Region
2023
2024
% Change YoY
Europe
14,600
20,660
42%
North America
41,600
90,932
119%
Rest of World
24,300
40,470
67%
Global Total
80,500
152,062
89%
% Outbound Shipments That Contain Plastic
Region
2023
2024
% Change YoY
Europe
0%
0%
0%
North America
65%
37%
-28%
Rest of World
14%
16%
1%
Global Total
45%
26%
-18%
*The scope of these metrics includes inbound prep packaging, which includes 
some plastic, as well as outbound delivery packaging. In Europe, we have 
eliminated plastic from outbound delivery packaging.
We are developing new, circular plastic packaging 
alternatives—especially for hard-to-recover and recycle 
plastic materials—that can be collected, sorted, recycled, 
and ultimately returned to the value chain for new uses. 
Progress in this work means rethinking the plastics value 
chain, toward a lower-carbon, circular process that can be 
scaled to meet the needs of our business and industry. We 
are currently focused on:
•	 Testing: In 2024, we began early-stage testing on  
bio-based bags made from organic sources with Amazon 
Fresh in Spain . These bio-based bags have the best 
attributes of conventional plastic and paper, in that 
they are easily recyclable, biodegradable, lightweight, 
and have both water and oxygen barriers. Through this 
testing, we confirmed that these bio-based bags can  
be used for several harder-to-recycle, fossil fuel-based 
plastic applications. We also collaborated with Novamont 
to test a biopolymer derived from starch and vegetable 
oils, called Mater-Bi.
•	 Sorting: We are engaging with Glacier  to use the 
company’s AI-powered robots for sorting recyclables. 
This will help us determine if bio-based bags can be 
identified in mixed-material waste streams.
•	 Recycling: We developed a novel recycling technology 
in collaboration with the U.S. Department of Energy’s 
BOTTLE Consortium that can break down both bio- and 
fossil fuel-based materials with ester bonds, allowing us 
to keep both in circulation.30
We recognize the significant investments needed to fund 
early-stage innovations, which is why we collaborate 
with those developing lower-carbon and lower-waste 
materials and improve recycling infrastructure around the 
world. For example, Shorr Packaging joined The Climate 
Pledge in 2024, the first of our cardboard suppliers to do 
so, while the packaging material provider Pregis became 
our first supplier to obtain Amazon-provided renewable 
energy credits to support the decarbonization of its 
converting operations.
Lightweight, protective paper helps us to create 
custom, right-sized packages.
In addition, through the Amazon Sustainability 
Accelerator , we support startups tackling some of 
the world’s biggest sustainability challenges. In 2024, 
we collaborated with two startups focused on reusable 
delivery packaging—Hipli and RE-ZIP  —to trial their 
innovative technologies with Amazon across Europe.
24
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Water
Goal
AWS will be water positive by 2030, 
returning more water to communities 
than it uses in its direct operations31
53%
Of the way toward meeting its water 
positive goal
Goal
Amazon will return more water to 
communities than it uses in direct 
operations across India by 2027
Amazon set this goal in December 2024 and will begin 
reporting progress in our 2025 Sustainability Report
Actions
0.15
L/kWh water use effectiveness (WUE) 
for Amazon’s data centers, a 17% 
improvement from 2023
23
Water replenishment projects globally 
invested in by Amazon
4.3B
Liters of water returned to 
communities from active replenishment 
projects, with more than 7 billion 
liters of total annual contracted 
replenishment volume for future years
Our Approach
Amazon aims to be a good water steward in every 
way we operate, including cooling servers in data 
centers, preparing food in grocery stores, and providing 
sanitation for associates in our buildings. Climate 
change, population growth, and economic development 
are increasing global water demand and affecting 
water availability in many regions of our operations. As 
a result, responsible and efficient water management 
is an important part of Amazon’s overall sustainability 
strategy. Amazon has public commitments to return 
more water to communities than we use in AWS direct 
operations globally by 2030, and in the direct operations 
of all Amazon facilities in India by 2027. To meet these 
commitments and support a more resilient and  
water-secure future, we are working to reduce our global 
water footprint and prioritizing action to address water 
scarcity, access, and quality in the most high-risk  
regions of our operations. We drive progress through  
the following strategies:
•	 Reduce: We increase our water use efficiency and 
reduce local withdrawals by installing water-conserving 
measures in buildings and tracking water use in real 
time to help minimize water loss.
•	 Reuse: We strive to source water from more sustainable 
sources, such as recycled and/or harvested rainwater, to 
minimize demands on public water supplies.
•	 Replenish: We invest in water replenishment projects 
that increase community water access, availability, and 
quality by restoring watersheds and bringing clean 
water, sanitation, and hygiene services to 
water-stressed communities.
Our Progress
Water Positive in Data Centers
In 2022, AWS announced its commitment to being water 
positive by 2030. To meet this goal, AWS is focused on 
improving liters per kilowatt-hour (L/kWh) water use 
effectiveness (WUE), using more sustainable sources, and 
delivering water replenishment. In 2024, AWS was 53% of 
the way toward meeting its water positive by 2030 goal, 
up from 41% in 2023. Progress is calculated using AWS’s 
Water Positive Methodology 
.
Reduce
Amazon is continually working to optimize water 
consumption and reduce the amount of incoming water 
we use. Within our direct operations, reduction efforts 
focus on increasing operational efficiency and resilience 
to limit water loss and enhance water conservation. We 
improve water use efficiency across Amazon operations 
by scaling real-time leak detection, innovative treatment 
technologies, and water-conserving fixtures.
AWS Data Centers
Amazon seeks to minimize water use across our global 
data centers. Within AWS, global teams deploy water 
monitoring technology in data centers to determine where 
they need to take action to maintain or improve WUE.
In 2024, AWS began implementing integrated liquid 
cooling components  to more efficiently manage 
artificial intelligence (AI) workloads at new data centers. 
These novel solutions combine air and liquid cooling 
capabilities for both powerful AI chipsets and AWS’s 
network switches and storage servers. This flexible design 
is expected to reduce mechanical energy consumption 
by up to 46% compared to previous designs during peak 
cooling conditions. The system also helps enable our 
direct evaporative cooling systems to meet generative AI 
demands without increasing water use per kWh.
In 2024, AWS reduced cooling water needs by 946 
million liters in North America. Partially enabled through 
improved server chip technology that can operate at higher 
temperatures, AWS also uses cloud technologies to monitor 
real-time water usage and automatically flag leaks for 
operators to resolve.
The implementation of these new technologies contributed 
to AWS’s global data center WUE of 0.15 liters of water per 
kilowatt-hour (L/kWh) in 2024—a 17% improvement from 
2023 and a 40% improvement since 2021.
AWS Water Use Effectiveness
2021
2022
2023
2024
% Change 
from 2023
Water use 
effectiveness 
(L/kWh)
0.25
0.19
0.18
0.15
17% 
Amazon Grocery, Logistics, and  
Corporate Buildings
Amazon seeks to implement water efficiency best 
practices across our global logistics and grocery 
operations, along with our corporate offices. In 2024, 
we scaled our global water metering and leak detection 
program to logistics and Whole Foods Market sites in 
highest-risk regions. Through this program, “smart” 
meters send data to a common dashboard and 
Amazon-developed leak detection software, allowing our 
engineering teams to respond to suspected leaks remotely 
and in real time. Additionally, this program enables our 
teams to analyze changes in water use patterns under 
different circumstances, such as fluctuations in seasonal 
demand, to improve forecasting and track the progress of 
our water conservation strategies.
25
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
We also incorporate water conservation into building 
plans. For example, in 2024, we obtained third-party 
certifications for our fulfillment centers in Cairo, Egypt, 
and Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, assuring water 
savings of 28% and 53%, respectively, as compared to 
certification baselines. We also reached 90% completion 
of our effort to install low-flow aerators at logistics sites 
in India, which is expected to save 4.6 million liters of 
water annually.
Across our corporate office footprint, we work to reduce 
indoor water use and design new buildings to comply  
with low-flow design standards. In 2024, we assessed  
7.5 million square feet of corporate office space in  
water-stressed regions in Brazil, Egypt, Mexico, Spain, 
South Africa, and the U.S. Based on this assessment, 
we installed low-flow faucet aerators at 17 U.S. sites to 
achieve water savings in line with our standards. We will 
expand this retrofit program to our other locations in  
water-stressed regions in 2025.
Reuse
In 2024, AWS had 24 data centers using recycled water 
for cooling and is working to quadruple the number 
of data centers using recycled water by 2030. AWS 
has agreements with seven utilities, enabling more 
than 4 billion liters of fresh water to be preserved for 
community use. As of the end of 2024, five data centers 
have operational rainwater capture systems in place, which 
reduces our demand on community water resources and 
reduces the adverse effects of stormwater runoff, which 
is a leading source of water pollution globally.
In India, Amazon is using on-site sewage treatment plants 
at 27 logistics sites to recycle greywater for toilet flushing 
and irrigation, which is expected to save an estimated 
279 million liters of water per year. We also have 
rainwater harvesting systems at fulfillment centers in 
Sydney and Melbourne, Australia. These facilities use 
roof-collected rainwater to supply restrooms and irrigate 
landscaped areas alongside water-conserving plumbing 
fixtures to improve water efficiency.
Replenish
AWS invests in water replenishment projects in the 
communities where we operate. These projects improve 
community water access, availability, and quality by 
restoring watersheds and bringing clean water, sanitation, 
and hygiene services to water-stressed communities.
By the end of 2024, Amazon had announced 23 water 
replenishment projects globally. These projects are 
expected to return more than 7 billion liters annually to 
communities once completed. In 2024, these projects 
returned 4.3 billion liters of water to communities.
We expanded water replenishment activities  to Chile 
and China in 2024, and funded additional projects in the 
U.S. and Brazil. These projects included leveraging AI to 
promote water savings through more responsible irrigation 
practices, treating and filtering water through the creation 
and restoration of wetlands, repairing ecosystems, and 
improving flood management.
In late 2024, Amazon launched new water replenishment 
projects as we work toward returning more water to 
communities in India than we use by 2027. Working with 
the environmental organization SayTrees, Amazon is 
undertaking a comprehensive restoration  of two 
once-vital water sources transformed by urbanization and 
erosion—Yamare Lake near Bengaluru and Sai Reddy Lake 
near Hyderabad. The restoration will include removing 
silt and sediment from the lake bottoms, restoring bund 
formations (embankments used to reduce erosion), and 
repairing inlet and outlet structures to enable proper 
drainage and regulate water flow. These projects, which 
are specifically focused on regions of highest water stress, 
are expected to increase the combined water volume 
capture potential of the two lakes by more than 
571 million liters once completed.
Water.org Water & Climate Philanthropic Fund
In 2022, Amazon committed $10 million to help 
Water.org  launch the Water.org Water & Climate 
Philanthropic Fund, which has a goal of deploying $1 
billion to deliver climate-resilient water and sanitation 
solutions to 100 million people worldwide. By the end 
of 2024, Water.org’s investment arm, WaterEquity, 
had raised nearly $460 million and reached 7.1 million 
people. With Amazon’s support, Water.org also 
empowered 1 million people in India with access to  
safe water and sanitation solutions in 2023 and 2024.
Rainwater harvesting “pits” use rainwater to 
recharge groundwater at one of Amazon’s fulfillment 
centers in National Capital Region of Delhi.
26
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Biodiversity
Our Approach
Biodiversity, which is defined as the variety of living 
species on Earth and the habitats, ecosystems, and natural 
processes that support them, is declining globally due 
to land use change, direct exploitation, climate change, 
pollution, and the proliferation of invasive species. Since 
1970, global wildlife populations have dropped by an 
average of 73%, signaling severe stress on the natural 
systems that support life.32 Amazon recognizes the critical 
importance of biodiversity to the health of the planet, 
communities, and our business.
Amazon’s approach to biodiversity follows a mitigation 
hierarchy that prioritizes avoidance and reduction of 
habitat loss above other actions. We are focusing on three 
areas to help avoid and minimize land use change within 
our own operations and enhance biodiversity beyond our 
business activities:
•	 Commodities in our supply chain. We aim to reduce 
deforestation and responsibly source agricultural  
and mineral commodities for our own products and  
delivery packaging.
•	 Buildings where we operate. We seek to avoid and 
minimize biodiversity loss related to the siting, 
construction, and operations of the buildings that 
support our businesses. We are beginning to measure 
habitat value at building sites and develop design 
standards that prioritize biodiversity enhancement.
•	 Beyond our value chain. We contribute to nature 
conservation and restoration through collaborative 
investments between private and public entities, 
especially in regions with sensitive ecosystems. This 
includes our commitment of $100 million to protect 
and restore nature through the Right Now Climate 
Fund. Amazon also enhances biodiversity through 
broader sustainability initiatives. For example, we are 
investing in nature-based climate solutions that reduce 
and remove carbon from the atmosphere  as part of 
The Climate Pledge and in watershed replenishment 
projects  that protect and restore natural fresh water 
sources to support our water positive goals.
Our Progress
Commodities in Our Supply Chain
The loss of natural habitat due to land conversion for 
activities such as agriculture and forestry is one of the 
primary drivers of biodiversity loss worldwide. Our 
business activities can indirectly affect biodiversity 
through the production of agricultural commodities 
used in Amazon’s own-branded products and delivery 
packaging. Our strategy to address this focuses on 
measuring and seeking opportunities to reduce the land 
footprint and the risk of habitat conversion from our 
agricultural commodity supply chains.
One way we are minimizing impact is by continuing to make 
progress on Amazon’s responsible sourcing commitments  
and enhancing them over time. These commitments often 
aim to achieve leading product certifications, such as those 
provided by the Rainforest Alliance, Forest Stewardship 
Council, and Better Cotton Initiative.
Within agricultural lands, Whole Foods Market works to 
improve the farms it sources from through promoting and 
supporting “climate-smart agriculture”—an approach to 
farming that supports environmental health, including 
the promotion of biodiversity, while considering both the 
impact agriculture has on the climate and the climate’s 
impact on agriculture. Whole Foods Market has a 
long-standing commitment to organic and regenerative 
agriculture, two approaches that employ climate-smart 
strategies. In 2024, 34% of all products sold at Whole 
Foods Market were organic, and over 61% of all fresh 
produce sold in 2024 was organic. To further promote 
on-farm biodiversity, Whole Foods Market joined Mad 
Agriculture’s Wilding initiative in 2024. This effort 
supports the strategic integration of native perennial 
vegetation planted in and around agricultural fields 
to enhance farm viability, protect pollinators, improve 
soil health, and support water retention. Through this 
partnership, Mad Agriculture and participating farmers 
are planting and maintaining 113 acres of reconstructed 
prairie, most of which are on farms that supply ingredients 
to brands we sell, reflecting a shared commitment to 
regenerative agriculture and environmental stewardship.
Whole Foods Market also supports pollinator health 
through its industry-leading Quality Standards .  
Under the Whole Foods Market Pollinator Health Policy 
 
for Fresh Produce and Floral, all fresh produce and floral 
suppliers must implement an integrated pest management 
system, which reduces the need for chemical pesticides. 
In recognition of its ongoing work, Whole Foods Market 
was 2024’s top-ranked retailer on Friends of the Earth’s 
Bee Friendly Retailer Scorecard, which ranks retailers on 
pollinator protection from pesticides in food and beverage 
supply chains.
Buildings Where We Operate
To address potential natural habitat changes associated 
with buildings in our retail operations and data centers, we 
are establishing metrics, guidance, and tools that support 
best practices for preventing habitat loss and creating 
on-site enhancements. At 24 building sites across Europe, 
North America, and India, we are evaluating habitat 
conditions and developing site designs that help avoid and 
reduce loss of habitat, such as retaining and adding native 
Actions
24
Amazon building sites in 
Europe, U.S., and India, where 
habitat conditions and site 
designs are being evaluated 
to help avoid and minimize 
habitat loss
$67.4M
Disbursed to nature 
conservation projects across 
the world through the Right 
Now Climate Fund in the 
past five years
49K
Hectares of land protected 
or restored through 
biodiversity and nature-related 
contributions and investments 
over the past five years
5
New Right Now Climate Fund 
projects added to our portfolio 
in 2024
#1
Ranking as top retailer for 
Whole Foods Market on the 
Friends of the Earth’s Bee 
Friendly Retailer Scorecard 
27
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Prairie Strips
Prairie Strips are strategically placed areas of native plants within and along 
the edges of agricultural fields. These plantings have the potential to attract 
pollinators, improve soil health, and enhance water retention, contributing 
to a more resilient farm ecosystem.
Goals
Reduce Soil Erosion   |   Improve Water Quality   |   Provide Wildlife Habitat
Placement
Around or 
through a field
In a terrace 
channel
Alongside 
waterways
Width
Seed Mix
Native grasses 
and flowers
120 
feet 
max.
30 
feet 
min.
Photos by Omar de Kok-Mercado
plant varieties and reducing impermeable surfaces. We are 
also piloting artificial intelligence and machine learning 
tools that can more rapidly appraise on-site biodiversity 
values, to scale these processes across more buildings. 
These tools will support our work to avoid biodiversity loss 
and inform mitigation actions, where needed.
Beyond Our Value Chain
Amazon contributes to preservation and restoration 
activities that enhance biodiversity and natural habitats 
beyond our direct business activities, which includes  
the following:
•	 We invest in high-quality nature-based carbon credits  
such as those that contribute to reducing deforestation 
at scale in the Amazon rainforest. While primarily 
aiming to reduce and remove carbon emissions, these 
programs are designed to protect and restore natural 
habitats in sensitive ecological regions in collaboration 
with local communities.
•	 We invest in water replenishment projects  that restore 
natural fresh water sources, thereby enhancing fresh 
water availability while improving natural habitats to 
benefit local communities.
•	 The $100 million Right Now Climate Fund supports 
nature conservation and climate resilience in 
communities around the world. Since 2019, we have 
disbursed $67.4 million to finance 19 projects across 14 
countries, protecting and restoring 49,000 hectares of 
land area. In 2024, we expanded our portfolio in four 
countries with five new community projects.
Right Now Climate Fund
Learn more about our Right Now Climate Fund 
projects around the world in our interactive map 
India
UK
Netherlands
Germany
Belgium
Spain
Ireland
28
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Human Rights
Our Approach
Amazon’s operations impact millions of people worldwide, 
including employees, suppliers and their workers, 
customers, and communities. With this reach, we can play 
a critical role in respecting and promoting human rights.
We believe every individual deserves to have their 
fundamental dignity respected. To achieve this, we embed 
respect for human rights throughout our business activities, 
and we work to engage with partners and suppliers that 
align with our values.
Amazon is committed to respecting internationally 
recognized human rights as defined by international 
standards and frameworks developed by the United 
Nations (UN) and the International Labour Organization 
(ILO), including the UN Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights ; the Core Conventions of the ILO ; and the 
ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights 
at Work .
Our approach  is built on five pillars:
•	 Developing and maintaining strong human rights 
policies and standards
•	 Embedding human rights into our business activities 
and decision-making
•	 Identifying, assessing, prioritizing, and addressing risk
•	 Engaging with stakeholders
•	 Improving access to effective grievance mechanisms
and remediation
Our Progress
We regularly strengthen our policies, programs, and 
resources to help ensure that our employees and 
workers everywhere we operate are treated with respect, 
understand their rights, and feel empowered to speak 
up. As outlined in more detail below, we continuously 
evaluate our operations and value chain, engaging 
stakeholders to identify, assess, prioritize, and address 
salient human rights risks, specifically those related to 
workers, customers, and people who live in communities 
connected to our business.
Developing and Maintaining Strong 
Policies and Standards
Amazon’s Global Human Rights Principles  outline 
our commitment to embed respect for human rights 
throughout our business activities. We published an 
update to our Global Human Rights Principles in January 
2025 to better align with evolving business needs, 
international standards, and industry best practices. In 
addition, Amazon’s Supply Chain Standards 
 outline our 
expectations for suppliers.
In 2024, to mitigate human rights risks that may occur 
during supplier disengagement, we adopted responsible 
disengagement guidelines. We prioritize working with 
suppliers to encourage remediation whenever possible, 
using disengagement only as a last resort, because 
terminating business relationships removes the incentive 
for improvement and can negatively impact workers  
and communities.
Learn more about how we engage our suppliers 
Actions
Updated our Global Human Rights Principles
Adopted guidelines on responsible supplier
disengagement
Hosted BSR’s third annual Tech Against 
Trafficking Summit
Conducted human rights and environmental due 
diligence for 10 businesses across Amazon
Embedding Human Rights 
into Our Business Activities 
and Decision-Making
Respect for human rights is everyone’s responsibility at 
Amazon. We embed this responsibility into our policy and 
governance framework and develop resources, guidance, 
and tools to help implement Amazon’s human rights 
strategy. We have a central team that works across the 
company to conduct human rights due diligence and 
integrate human rights considerations into business 
decisions. In addition, we strive to embed our human rights 
principles in employees’ everyday work by offering training 
and resources to help drive accountability at all levels.
All employees have access to online training on the 
company’s human rights commitments. We also offer 
modern slavery training, available in seven languages, 
which helps employees identify warning signs and report 
concerns to the appropriate authorities, as well as training 
on responsible purchasing practices for our sourcing and 
procurement teams.
Learn more about our human rights governance 
Assessing, Prioritizing,  
and Addressing Risk
We continue to refine our approach to assess, prioritize, and 
address human rights risks across our business activities. 
Our teams work to understand risks, strengthen prevention 
strategies, and integrate human rights and environmental 
considerations into everyday business decisions.
In 2020, Amazon conducted an enterprise-wide human 
rights saliency assessment to identify salient human rights 
risks  under international standards.33 Since then, we 
have conducted an increasing number of business-specific 
due diligence assessments, including an Amazon Devices 
human rights impact assessment (2020), a Twitch human 
rights impact assessment (2023), an Amazon Private 
Brands human rights saliency assessment (2023), and 
a due diligence management systems review of Whole 
Foods Market (2023).
In 2024, we expanded our human rights and environmental 
due diligence (HREDD) work to encompass a broader range 
of key businesses and enterprise segments, including 10 
business units such as AWS, Operations, Stores, Grocery, 
and Corporate Real Estate. Our methodology is grounded 
in international standards and combines country, sector, 
and product data with internal insights from worker 
feedback, among other sources.
The results of these HREDD assessments strengthen our 
understanding of systemic and business-specific risks 
and inform action plans to mitigate future risks. In 2024, 
we strengthened Amazon Private Brands’ responsible 
sourcing practices by supporting suppliers in mitigating 
human rights risks and promoting continuous supply 
29
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
chain improvements. Following Amazon Private Brands’ 
2023 Human Rights Saliency Assessment, we prioritized 
areas such as chemicals management and fair wages, 
conducting deep-dive assessments including a fair wage 
benchmarking exercise across targeted sites in Bangladesh. 
We also used supplier feedback collected through Better 
Buying to improve sourcing and procurement strategies.
Engaging with Stakeholders
Addressing human rights challenges requires collaboration 
with stakeholders and industry partners who share our 
priorities. Our human rights due diligence strategy includes 
stakeholder engagement to promote accountability and to 
engage in collaborations.
We collaborate with credible and innovative organizations 
to help improve working conditions across our supply 
chain. For example, in 2024, Amazon:
•	 Supported the Japan Platform for Migrant Workers 
toward Responsible and Inclusive Society (JP-MIRAI)
in launching a Fair and Ethical Recruitment Initiative. 
This initiative aims to advance migrant worker rights 
through stakeholder engagement and specialized 
training programs in the Asia-Pacific region.
•	 Hosted and sponsored BSR’s third annual Tech Against 
Trafficking Summit , bringing together 162 experts, 
including individuals from technology companies, 
governments, human rights nonprofits, and those with 
lived experience, to explore technology-driven solutions 
both for improving supply chain transparency on forced 
labor and accelerating the efforts of local and global 
anti-trafficking organizations.
•	 Facilitated discussions with multiple companies to 
discuss ways to protect young workers and eliminate 
child labor in American supply chains.
Learn more about our human rights partnerships  and 
supply chain partnerships 
Amazon’s Sustainability Exchange , a free, publicly 
available website offering previously proprietary 
information to help other companies seeking to make 
progress toward their sustainability goals, includes human 
rights as a focus area. Through the Amazon Sustainability 
Exchange, stakeholders can find fundamental steps for 
establishing a human rights program, case studies that 
showcase how others are implementing more sustainable 
practices across their operations, and resources and tools 
to empower businesses to take action. Learn more about 
how the Sustainability Exchange supports suppliers in 
advancing decarbonization efforts  
Improving Access to Effective 
Grievance Mechanisms and 
Remediation
We empower and encourage our employees to share their 
concerns and communicate candidly with us through 
employee engagement and communications channels . 
These include grievance mechanisms and avenues for 
effective two-way dialogue with leadership through 
platforms like MyVoice, Connections, and the Amazon 
Ethics Line. These various channels and processes  
enable us to review and address suggestions, concerns, 
and grievances.
Beyond our employees, we expect our suppliers to provide 
their workers access to effective grievance mechanisms in 
our supply chain . Amazon works with our suppliers to 
help them develop these mechanisms and to support the 
resolution of issues that are reported.
We also welcome anyone—including employees, 
contractors, suppliers, customers and community 
members—to share concerns directly with us through our 
Human Rights and Environmental Complaints Form , 
which is available in 19 languages and dialects and can  
be accessed globally. Learn more about our ethical 
business practices 
We hosted and sponsored BSR’s third annual Tech Against 
Trafficking Summit in London.
30
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Responsible 
Supply Chain
Our Approach
With a network of thousands of suppliers around the 
world, we embrace our ability to support safe and healthy 
working conditions throughout our supply chain. Our 
dedicated supply chain engagement teams are focused 
on building long-term relationships and fostering 
ongoing improvement. We engage directly with suppliers 
that support safe working conditions, fair pay, and 
environmental protection in their own businesses. We 
also collaborate with industry peers that maintain high 
standards and drive progress through new initiatives.
Amazon’s Supply Chain Standards 
, available in 23 
languages and dialects, detail our expectations for all 
suppliers of goods and services for Amazon, including 
service providers, vendors, selling partners, contractors, 
and subcontractors.34 Products sold in Amazon stores, 
as well as products and services provided to us, must 
be manufactured, produced, or provided in accordance 
with these standards. Suppliers are responsible for 
communicating these standards to their own suppliers.
In 2024, to promote awareness of the Supply Chain 
Standards, we developed and deployed online trainings 
to 500 suppliers, including a new course on child labor 
prevention. Additionally, we made 38 third-party online 
trainings covering 14 human rights topics—such as 
anti-harassment and responsible recruitment—
accessible for our businesses to offer to their suppliers. 
To complement our online training efforts and further 
support our suppliers, we hosted 20 in-person workshops 
across 11 countries, which engaged 718 participants from 
351 suppliers.
Whole Foods Market Seafood Code
of Conduct
In 2024, Whole Foods Market developed its new Seafood 
Code of Conduct, which was published in early 2025. The 
Code establishes clear standards to safeguard the human 
rights and welfare of workers throughout its global seafood 
supply chain. All Whole Foods Market seafood suppliers—
from vessel owners to processors and distributors—are 
expected to follow these standards. The Seafood Code of 
Conduct builds on Whole Foods Market’s broader Supplier 
Code of Conduct and is part of the company’s long-term 
mission to promote social responsibility and continuous 
improvement in its supply chain.
Our Progress 
Assessing Our Suppliers
Our supplier assessment approach includes auditing 
our suppliers, working with them when issues arise, and 
managing supplier risk in Amazon-branded product 
manufacturing and our global logistics network.
Audits
Supplier audits help us to assess supplier compliance with 
our Supply Chain Standards, identify issues, and take 
corrective actions when needed.35 We audit suppliers in 
four categories: Labor Rights, Ethics, Environment, and 
Health and Safety.
Audit findings are flagged as high-, medium-, or low-level, 
depending on severity. A high-level finding is an issue 
that has caused or is likely to cause immediate harm 
to workers or communities or demonstrates egregious 
unethical behavior. A medium-level finding is an issue that 
poses significant risk of harm to workers or communities 
or demonstrates unethical or exploitative behavior. When 
high-level issues are identified, suppliers must develop 
corrective action plans to address identified issues as well 
as long-term plans to prevent recurrence. As necessary, 
suppliers must also undergo follow-up audits to confirm 
the sufficient remediation of identified issues. For 
medium-level issues, we track and confirm meaningful 
progress toward resolution through corrective action 
plans, while we monitor low-level issues for continuous 
improvement through maintenance audits.
Risk Management
We seek to identify, assess, and prioritize risk across our 
supply chain through a centralized methodology that 
combines external data, worker feedback, and audit 
findings aligning with international standards. This 
central methodology allows us to more systematically 
assess our supply chains to better understand the highest 
risks to workers. Our approach includes identifying 
country-specific risks and implementing site-level 
requirements to build suppliers’ capacity to meet our 
Supply Chain Standards. For example, in countries 
identified as at the highest risk for modern slavery, we 
require eligible suppliers to join Better Work, a program 
that collaborates directly with factories, workers, and 
their representatives to support greater compliance with 
national labor laws and international labor standards.36 
In countries where Better Work is unavailable or not 
applicable to a product category, we require participation 
in an Amazon-managed audit and Amazon’s advisory 
services, a tailored supplier-level intervention with 
enhanced oversight to improve working conditions and 
maintain continuous improvement.
Actions
3.6K+
Supplier audits including  
Amazon-branded products,  
third-party labor, service, and  
not-for-resale goods providers  
across our logistics, warehousing,  
and construction supply chain
5.8K
Female workers completed  
training through i4Equality,  
an Amazon-owned  
capacity-building program  
for suppliers
Nearly
88K
Workers at supplier sites across Asia 
participated in safe and healthy 
workplace industry programs
Broadened Amazon Private Brands’ fair wage benchmarking 
program to the apparel sector
Participated in the Harvesting the Future – Cotton in India 
initiative, a unique multisector collaboration coordinated  
by the Fair Labor Association
Collaborated with the Life and Building Safety (LABS) 
Initiative to support the development of workplace safety 
programs in our supply chain 
31
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Expanding Our Supplier Audit Program
In 2024, we strengthened our global human rights risk 
management by expanding our supplier audit program to 
reach more of Amazon’s global logistics network. While 
our audits have traditionally focused on Amazon-branded 
product suppliers, we recognize risks to workers exist 
throughout our supply chain. By broadening our scope to 
include third-party labor, service, and not-for-resale goods 
providers in our logistics, warehousing, and construction 
supply chain, we demonstrate our commitment to making 
human rights risk mitigation central to our logistics 
business strategy and daily decisions. Given the scale 
and complexity of our global logistics supply chain, we 
began by auditing suppliers operating within our facilities, 
building upon our established processes and tools. Over 
the next several years, we plan to expand these audits 
to our global transportation supply chain, developing 
approaches tailored to different businesses and supplier 
categories, to enhance our assessment of third-party 
service providers’ compliance with Amazon’s Supply 
Chain Standards.
In 2024, we performed 3,639 audits of suppliers of 
Amazon-branded products, third-party labor, service, 
and not-for-resale goods providers in our logistics, 
warehousing, and construction supply chain. Of these, 
1,695 audits specifically focused on third-party labor, 
service, and not-for-resale goods providers in our logistics, 
warehousing, and construction supply chain. These include 
initial audits with new suppliers to our audit program, 
maintenance audits for sites we have already audited and 
supported, and verification audits to confirm sufficient 
remediation of identified issues.
Remediation
Remediation services are available for all Amazon 
businesses, and required when third-party labor, service, 
and not-for-resale goods providers in our logistics, 
warehousing, and construction supply chain have  
high- or medium-risk findings in their audits. Remediation 
managers, who are strategically placed globally where 
Amazon operates, support suppliers in developing corrective 
action plans, verify their progress, advise on how to 
mitigate risks going forward, and conduct follow-up 
audits as needed. Failure to take corrective action can 
result in suppliers losing their ability to conduct business 
with Amazon. While the remediation varies based on the 
nature and scope of the issues, we prioritize working with 
suppliers to respond quickly, remove harm, act in the best 
interests of workers, and commit to preventing similar 
issues in the future.
Mapping Our Supply Chain
We work within our supply chain to identify risks and 
collaborate on systemic issues. Our supplier list and 
interactive supply chain map  provides details on finished 
product suppliers of Amazon-branded apparel, consumer 
electronics, food and beverage, and home goods products. 
Recognizing the need for further transparency beyond 
finished product suppliers, we have been working toward 
greater visibility in upstream supply chains. In 2024, we 
began expanding our public supplier list and supply chain 
map to include apparel component suppliers. Updated 
Supplier Audits by Type37
46.6%
Maintenance 
Audit
39.9%
Initial 
Audit
13.5%
Verification 
Audit
Supplier Audits by Risk Ratings38
Subcategory
2022
(manufacturing audits only)
2023
(manufacturing audits only)
202439
Labor Rights
Freedom of Association
 0.2%
 0.0%
 0.2%
 0.0%
 0.1%
 0.0%
Freely Chosen Employment
 2.5%
 0.4%
 5.6%
 1.3%
 6.4%
 1.0%
Humane Treatment
 0.2%
 0.0%
 0.2%
 0.0%
 0.3%
 0.1%
Nondiscrimination
 0.1%
 0.1%
 0.1%
 0.1%
 0.1%
 0.0%
Subcontractor and Next-Tier Supplier Responsibility
 0.0%
 0.0%
 0.0%
 0.0%
 0.0%
 0.0%
Wages and Benefits
 40.8%
 0.0%
 27.1%
 0.0%
 17.0%
 0.0%
Worker Grievance/Complaint Mechanism
 0.0%
 0.0%
 0.0%
 0.0%
 0.0%
 0.0%
Working Hours
 3.8%
 0.0%
 6.6%
 0.0%
 8.1%
 0.0%
Young Workers
 0.1%
 0.0%
 1.0%
 0.0%
 0.2%
 0.1%
Ethical Behavior
Business Integrity
 1.3%
 0.1%
 3.0%
 0.0%
 2.9%
 0.0%
Transparency
 0.4%
 0.9%
 0.5%
 1.8%
 0.8%
 2.9%
Environment
Hazardous Substances
 0.0%
 0.0%
 0.1%
 0.0%
 0.1%
 0.0%
Pollution Management and Prevention
 0.2%
 0.0%
 0.1%
 0.0%
 0.1%
 0.0%
Health and Safety
Emergency Preparedness and Response
 6.7%
 0.7%
 11.7%
 2.9%
 14.1%
 3.5%
Industrial Hygiene
 15.3%
 0.0%
 8.1%
 0.0%
 4.2%
 0.0%
Machine Safeguarding
 0.2%
 0.0%
 0.3%
 0.1%
 0.5%
 0.1%
Sanitation, Dormitory, and Canteen
 1.0%
 0.2%
 1.1%
 0.4%
 0.6%
 0.5%
Occupational Safety
 11.9%
 0.1%
 10.5%
 0.1%
 8.6%
 0.1%
Medium-Level Findings
High-Level Findings
32
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
yearly, this information provides customers and external 
stakeholders visibility into where we source our products. 
Our 2024 supplier list included nearly 2,300 finished-product 
suppliers and component suppliers.
We share our supplier list to Open Supply Hub (OS Hub) , 
an open supply chain mapping platform used across sectors 
to increase supply chain transparency and collaboration. 
Amazon also serves on OS Hub’s Technical Steering 
Committee, a multi-stakeholder group that supports the 
technical direction and development of the hub.
Advancing Our Supply Chain 
Commitments
To build a responsible supply chain, we focus where we 
can have influence both directly and indirectly through our 
work with industry and other partners .
Responsible Recruitment and Freely
Chosen Employment
We do not tolerate child labor, involuntary or forced 
labor, human trafficking, or modern slavery in any form. 
We continually work to improve our efforts to identify, 
prevent, and address the risks of all forms of modern 
slavery. We work to provide individuals from vulnerable 
and marginalized communities access to clear, transparent 
information on working conditions including pay, hiring 
practices, and contract terms.
In 2024, Amazon strengthened our detection and 
prevention capabilities; we established robust reporting 
mechanisms and enhanced monitoring systems designed 
to identify and address potential risk indicators quickly and 
efficiently. Through our comprehensive awareness program, 
we delivered specialized training to over 2,500 security 
associates across our U.S. operations. In 2025, we plan to 
expand this training globally. We also launched training on 
identifying and preventing child labor in supply chains for 
our grocery suppliers in 2024.
We engage and collaborate with relevant stakeholders—
including nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), law 
enforcement and other agencies to reinforce and advance 
our efforts to prevent risk. In 2024, we worked with the 
Mekong Club, a nonprofit organization that partners with 
the private sector to help prevent modern slavery. The 
Mekong Club provided a training series on responsible 
recruitment practices for 172 suppliers in Saudi Arabia 
and the United Arab Emirates. As a corporate sponsor of 
TAT (Truckers Against Trafficking), we support its mission 
to educate, equip, empower, and mobilize members of 
key industries and agencies to combat human trafficking. 
Through TAT’s training modules, we have equipped 10,100 
active Amazon transportation associates to identify and 
respond to potential instances of human trafficking, 
including 4,100 associates trained in 2024.
We continue to support a systems-change approach 
through industry collaboration. In 2024, Amazon 
announced participation in the Harvesting the Future 
– Cotton in India initiative, a multisector collaboration 
coordinated by the Fair Labor Association. This three-
year effort connects Amazon and 23 other global brands 
with Indian garment and textile producers and several 
local implementing partners to enhance working and 
living conditions for cotton farmers and their families 
across 32 villages in Madhya Pradesh, India. After a 
comprehensive scoping study, the brand group focused 
on specific efforts to create improvements in the cotton 
sector, such as establishing child labor-free zones, 
initiatives to help ensure legal wages, and monitoring of 
working conditions. In 2024, we also collaborated with 
The Centre for Child Rights and Business to conduct child 
labor risk assessments for strategic suppliers in the U.S., 
develop risk management tools and training materials 
that reached 344 suppliers, and engage with stakeholders 
including business representatives, NGOs, and workers to 
strengthen our child labor prevention framework.
Learn more about responsible recruitment and 
remediation in our Modern Slavery Statement 
Access to Effective Grievance Mechanisms
We encourage workers across our value chain to voice 
their concerns, whether directly to us, through
supplier-managed tools, products, and systems that we 
support, or by connecting our suppliers to third-party 
grievance mechanisms. 
For example, through our Worker Voice program, we 
assist suppliers to improve their own internal systems, 
conduct supplier and worker training, triage cases, and help 
improve management of the grievance process. In 2024, we 
developed a worker grievance tool for contracted associates 
at Amazon facilities in Saudi Arabia so that worker voices 
could be heard by both our suppliers and Amazon.
We also connected suppliers and service providers with 
supplier-managed grievance mechanisms that we support 
to hear directly from workers about their experiences and 
support the resolution of issues from workers’ perspectives. 
In 2024, we helped connect supplier sites in eight countries 
with third-party grievance mechanisms. One example is 
the Amader Kotha Helpline, which is a partner of Nirapon, 
an industry-led nonprofit that works with global brands, 
retailers, manufacturers, and other NGOs to create 
and sustain a culture of workplace safety in factories in 
Bangladesh. Another example is Ulula, a worker-centric 
platform that enables workers to participate in surveys and 
access a remedy-centered helpline to raise their concerns 
with specialized support in Cambodia, China, India, and 
Pakistan. In Japan, we partner with JP-MIRAI to provide 
workers at certain supplier sites access to JP-MIRAI’s 
independent grievance mechanism.
Our Human Rights and Environmental Complaints 
Form  allows supply chain workers, among others, 
to share concerns directly with us. It is available in 19 
languages and dialects and can be accessed globally. 
Complaints are evaluated in accordance with Amazon’s 
Global Human Rights Principles  and Supply Chain 
Standards 
. Amazon’s central human rights team 
We collaborate with PATH Wellness4All on programs 
offering hands-on and e-learning tools to improve 
workplace health and safety.
33
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
manages and tracks the complaints. If a violation is 
identified, relevant parties are responsible for collaborating 
to implement remedial actions. In 2024, we addressed 
100% of the 826 complaints that were filed that year.40
Learn more about our grievance mechanisms  and other 
ways to report concerns 
Safe and Healthy Workplaces
Everyone has a right to a safe and healthy workplace. 
Across the globe, we work with suppliers and global 
organizations to support workers’ rights to safe and 
healthy workplaces. For example, our work with Nirapon 
extends beyond grievance mechanisms to foster 
workplace safety in Bangladesh through monitoring and 
overall safety oversight and training.
We are also members of the Life and Building Safety 
(LABS) Initiative, an industry-driven program which 
works to mitigate preventable fire, electrical, and 
structural building safety risks in key apparel-, footwear-, 
accessories- and home-textile-producing countries. 
Since 2024, Amazon has actively contributed to the 
LABS program through participation on the Steering, 
Technical, and Communications committees. In addition, 
through our Building, Electrical, and Fire Safety (BEFS) 
program, we go beyond traditional audits in countries 
not covered by Nirapon or LABS. In 2024, Tier 1 supplier 
sites in Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, 
Malaysia, and Vietnam participated in safe and healthy 
workplace industry programs including LABS (sites 
nominated by peer brands), Nirapon, the ILO’s Sustaining 
Competitive and Responsible Enterprises (SCORE), Social 
Accountability International (SAI)’s TenSquared, and PATH 
Wellness4All, covering nearly 88,000 workers.
Fair Wages
We believe everyone has a right to be paid fairly for the 
work they perform, and ensuring workers receive fair pay 
remains a global, cross-industry issue. Wage transparency 
is critical to assist us in addressing wage disparities in our 
supply chain, and we support our suppliers in evaluating 
whether workers earn enough to meet their basic needs 
and the needs of their families.
In 2024, Amazon Private Brands expanded its fair 
wage benchmarking program to the apparel sector 
for worker compensation at Tier 1 factories and Tier 2 
mills in high-risk areas. In Bangladesh, the assessments 
enabled suppliers to measure their progress toward fair 
compensation, as we work closely with our suppliers to 
support their implementation of Bangladesh’s updated 
wage regulations.
We also supported the Anker Research Institute, a global 
research initiative that has developed a methodology for 
estimating living wages and living incomes around the 
world. By annually updating its publicly available global 
database of living wage and living income estimates, 
all stakeholders can access information on the cost of 
living in regions where products are manufactured or 
harvested, so that they can make informed decisions, 
support advocacy efforts, and contribute to the 
promotion of decent wages and incomes. In 2025, 
we plan to support key suppliers to assess worker 
compensation and develop response plans, including 
enhanced wage training and remediation support.
Environmental Protection
We strive to source products and services that avoid 
unnecessary environmental harm. In 2024, we continued our 
collaboration with the Institute of Public & Environmental 
Affairs (IPE), a nonprofit environmental research organization 
in China that promotes environmental disclosures and 
environmental governance. We use IPE’s public database 
to assist in screening our supplier sites in China for 
environmental issues. In 2025, we plan to integrate IPE’s 
data with other sources, including grievance mechanisms, to 
strengthen our ability to identify potential environmental 
compliance issues that may not be detected through 
traditional supplier assessments.
Amazon also encourages suppliers to evaluate their 
sustainability-focused practices using the Higg Facility 
Environmental Module (FEM), which assesses performance 
and helps prioritize opportunities for improvement 
across seven environmental impact areas, such as carbon 
emissions, waste, and water. In 2024, 61% of Amazon’s 
Private Brands Tier 1 apparel suppliers completed the 
Higg FEM, to better understand their environmental 
performance and practices.
Learn more about how we engage suppliers to achieve 
net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 
Equal Opportunity
Amazon serves on the advisory board of the Resilience 
Fund for Women in Global Value Chains, supporting 
women-led organizations in Southeast Asia through 
flexible grants for sexual and reproductive health 
programs or the prevention of gender-based violence.
In 2024, we completed the implementation of BSR’s 
HERproject, a legacy program now part of RISE 
(Reimagining Industry to Support Equality), to support 
workers in Vietnam with health care training. Further, our 
i4Equality training program covers gender inclusion and 
the prevention of sexual harassment in the workplace, as 
well as women’s health, workplace dialogue, and financial 
literacy for suppliers in China, India, and Sri Lanka. By 
the end of 2024, 5,800 female workers had completed 
training in Sri Lanka.
i4Equality is an Amazon-owned capacity-building 
program that helps suppliers’ efforts on gender 
inclusion.
34
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Sustainable 
Products
Our Approach
Amazon’s commitment to our customers means offering 
products that align with our customers’ values and 
expectations. This includes providing customers with 
opportunities to discover and purchase more sustainable 
products. We work across our brands to embed 
sustainability principles and focus on three themes:
•	 Sourcing better materials: We are improving our 
materials and sourcing standards and continuing to 
make progress on our sourcing goals for Amazon- and 
Whole Foods Markets-branded products.41 This entails 
sourcing minerals, commodities, and agricultural 
products responsibly; using safer chemicals; and 
incorporating recycled materials where possible.
•	 Designing more sustainable products: We aim to 
reduce the emissions and waste associated with the 
design, development, and delivery of Amazon- and 
Whole Foods Market-branded products.
•	 Providing more sustainable shopping choices: We 
create and offer programs that enable our customers 
to purchase more sustainable products—both Amazon 
and non-Amazon products—across our various 
channels. This includes Climate Pledge Friendly , 
through which customers can discover products that are 
recognized to have at least one sustainability feature.
Our Progress 
Sourcing Better Materials
Creating more sustainable products starts with sourcing 
raw materials responsibly. We focus on improving the 
materials and sourcing standards for our Amazon Private 
Brands and Whole Foods Market products.
Materials and Agricultural  
Commodities Sourcing
To support the elimination of deforestation linked to 
raw materials and ingredients within our global grocery 
and commodities supply chains, Amazon has made 
commitments for the use of palm oil, paper and paper 
packaging, beef, soy, cocoa, coffee, and tea. We have 
also established goals and ambitions related to more 
sustainable seafood, animal welfare, and apparel for our 
Whole Foods Market and Amazon Private Brands in North 
America and Europe.
In 2024, Whole Foods Market and Amazon Private 
Brands achieved 22 of 38 sustainability commitments, 
which cover 11 different commodities. Whole Foods 
Market achieved 11 sourcing commitments, consistent 
with progress achieved in 2023. Amazon Private Brands 
North America and Europe achieved 12 out of 27 goals 
and ambitions, including our paper sourcing goal for 
100% of paper products in North America. We have 
identified opportunities to hit 100% in Europe in 2025. 
Amazon Private Brands North America also increased 
the percentage of bagged tea products it sourced from 
Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade International, or Fair Trade 
USA-certified suppliers to 75% in 2024, up from 18%
in 2023.
Amazon remains committed to mitigating deforestation in 
our soy supply chains. Private Brands in North America and 
Europe partnered with a third-party consultant in 2023 
to assess deforestation risks. Findings showed that most 
soy used in North American Amazon and Whole Foods 
Market private brand products comes from domestic 
sources, presenting minimal deforestation risk. In Europe, 
we made progress increasing the percentage of verified 
Deforestation- and Conversion-Free soy in our European 
supply chains throughout 2024. However, industry-wide 
challenges mean we will likely not be able to achieve our 
full commitment without change. To help drive industry-
wide change, Amazon Fresh Private Brands in Europe 
has joined the Retail Soy Group, demonstrating our 
ongoing commitment to making sustainable soy the 
market standard.
Amazon became a member of the Roundtable on 
Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) in 2024, reinforcing our 
commitment to source RSPO-certified palm oil in 
our Private Brands products. As a result, we achieved 
substantial progress on our goals to source palm oil and its 
derivatives from sources certified to the RSPO supply chain 
standard, reaching 100% in-scope products for Whole 
Foods Market and 97% and 100% for Amazon Private 
Brands North America and Europe, respectively.
We also updated our Amazon Fresh Animal Welfare 
Position 
 to refine and improve our species-level practices.
Learn more about our progress in our Materials and 
Agricultural Commodities Sourcing table 
Designing Amazon Products 
More Sustainably
Creating Amazon products to be more sustainable, 
while maintaining high quality and affordability, starts 
with their initial design and extends throughout their 
lifecycle—from shipping, use, and ultimately end of life. 
We consider factors such as raw materials, recyclability, 
and energy efficiency in creating Amazon products.
Actions
22
Of 38 responsible materials and 
commodities sourcing goals and 
ambitions achieved early
1.7B+
Items sold that were recognized 
by certifications in our Climate 
Pledge Friendly program, a 48% 
increase from 2023
2.2M+
Products recognized by 
certifications in our Climate 
Pledge Friendly program available 
to customers for purchase, a 59% 
increase from 2023
143.8M
Customers switched from 
a conventional product to 
a product recognized by 
certifications in our Climate 
Pledge Friendly program 
since 202042
29%
Of Amazon Private Brands 
non-food sales were from 
products recognized by 
certifications in our Climate 
Pledge Friendly program
8
New countries where Climate 
Pledge Friendly is available, 
now serving customers across 
14 international stores
35
Overview
Progress
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Amazon Grocery
Amazon seeks to sell high-quality grocery products 
made with responsibly sourced ingredients and ethical 
production practices. At Whole Foods Market, our 
rigorous Quality Standards  ban many ingredients 
commonly found in other stores, and numerous farming, 
ranching, fishing, and manufacturing practices. Amazon 
Fresh in North America is also one of a few grocery 
retailers nationally that offers only cage-free egg 
selection. Additionally, Amazon Private Brand shell and 
liquid eggs must meet cage-free or higher animal welfare 
standards, and all stand-alone coffee and teas must be 
certified by the Rainforest Alliance, Fair Trade USA, or 
Fairtrade International.
In 2024, we measured carbon emissions, soil health, 
and water usage of Whole Foods Market and Amazon 
Fresh private label food products. As of the end of 2024, 
we had measured the carbon footprint of 69% of our 
food-related private label products, which allows us to 
identify and prioritize carbon abatement projects. Projects 
implemented in 2024 include manure management with 
dairy farmers, increasing climate smart practices on dairy 
farms and with leafy green growers, and enhancing process 
electrification and feed efficiency with seafood suppliers.
We also explore ways to improve grocery packaging 
to lower associated emissions, reduce food waste, and 
divert waste from landfills. Amazon Fresh Private Brands’ 
and Whole Foods Market’s packaging guidelines help 
merchants, procurement teams, and suppliers to make 
more sustainable packaging choices and reduce material 
use. In 2024, our North America Grocery Private Brands 
business avoided 8.85 metric tons of plastic.
In addition, Whole Foods Market is expanding its carbon 
reduction efforts beyond stores to its supply chain and 
working with suppliers to reduce the carbon impact 
of products in its supply chain. In 2024, Whole Foods 
Market launched a pilot program to reduce emissions in 
shrimp farming through more sustainable feed initiatives, 
improved delivery efficiency, and by reducing operational 
energy use with the installation of solar panels.
Amazon Private Brands
We continuously work to decarbonize Amazon Private 
Brands’ supply chain and product materials and set a 
high bar for responsible sourcing. As of the end of 2024, 
we had measured the carbon footprint of 75% of our 
non-food related products. This exercise confirmed the 
largest carbon abatement opportunities for Amazon 
Private Brands guiding our decarbonization efforts 
for 2025 and beyond. In 2024, we also used the Higg 
Facility Environmental Module to assess our apparel 
suppliers’ product manufacturing activities and identified 
engagement opportunities with more carbon-intensive 
suppliers, such as fabric mills.
We regularly evaluate Amazon Private Brands’ 
environmental and responsible sourcing standards, and, in 
2024, we enhanced our lower-carbon material standards 
for new products. We also regularly seek opportunities 
to collaborate with our suppliers on developing more 
sustainable materials. For example, we worked with a 
home textiles supplier to recycle polyester scraps from its 
production lines to reduce the use of virgin polyester in 
Amazon Private Brands’ products. We also strive to reduce 
packaging for Amazon Private Brands products, including 
by collaborating with suppliers on packaging optimization, 
and we prioritize the development of Amazon Private 
Brands products that have certifications recognized by 
our Climate Pledge Friendly program. As of the end of 
2024, 29% of Amazon Private Brands product sales were 
recognized by certifications in this program. In addition, we 
publish a Formulated Products Restricted Substances List 
 
and a Packaging Restricted Substance List 
 outlining the 
materials we seek to avoid in specific products. Amazon 
enforces these restricted substances lists with our suppliers 
individually and through industry groups.
Amazon Devices
We aim for each generation of Amazon devices to be more 
carbon-efficient than the last. One way we do this is by 
incorporating recycled materials in our products. By the 
end of 2024, various components across Echo, Fire TV, 
Fire tablets, and Kindle were made from a majority  
of—or all—recycled materials. These included 58% 
recycled plastic, 100% recycled yarn, 100% recycled 
aluminum, and 90% recycled magnesium. In 2024, we 
also launched 25 new devices and accessories with a 
SCS Recycled Content or a Carbon Trust certification, 
which are certifications recognized by our Climate Pledge 
Friendly program.
While we do not source directly from mine sites and 
smelters, we are committed to avoiding the use of 
minerals that have fueled conflict. We aim to have 
100% of tin, tungsten, tantalum, and gold smelters and 
refiners in our supply chain conform with a recognized 
minerals certification program. In addition, we aim to use 
more recycled materials when sourcing minerals for our 
electronic products. In 2024, we introduced the new Kindle 
Colorsoft Signature Edition e-reader with a battery made 
from 100% recycled cobalt and the Echo Hub Smart Home 
Control Panel with magnets made from 100% recycled 
rare earth elements. We also engage our suppliers and 
supply chain partners on responsible mineral sourcing 
mechanisms and collaborate to advance industry-wide 
progress. Learn more about our approach to avoiding 
conflict minerals in our Conflict Minerals Report 
We set a goal to invest in new renewable energy capacity 
to match the electricity used by our customers’ Echo, 
Fire TV and Ring devices by 2025. By 2022, we had 
contracted enough renewable energy capacity to match 
our 2025 projections. In 2024, when this capacity was 
brought online, we matched the electricity used by active 
Echo, Fire TV and Ring devices—a full year ahead of 
our goal. By the end of 2024, over 71% of Echo devices 
and Fire TVs featured Low Power Mode, compared to 
67% in 2023. We continue to issue over-the-air updates 
so that older devices can also use this feature. We also 
strive to use best-in-class practices to make our products 
more resilient and last longer, so they do not need to be 
replaced as often.
In 2024, 89% of new devices and accessories featured 
100% recyclable packaging in the U.S., now at 42 devices 
in total, but down from 90% in 2023, due to the types 
of devices released in 2024. Some products, large Fire 
TVs for example, require non-recyclable packaging 
components (e.g., expanded polystyrene (EPS) foam) 
to meet shipping and storage product protection 
requirements. We also introduced redesigned packaging 
for Echo, Kindle, and Fire TV devices  that replaces, on 
average, 30% of the fiber content with recycled fiber, and 
has 60% less ink compared to previous packaging. This 
new packaging also reduces our reliance on virgin tree-based 
and bleached fibers, resulting in an average of 98% wood 
fiber-based materials from responsibly managed forests 
or recycled sources used in packaging across our device 
product lines.
We work with our suppliers to reduce waste throughout 
our supply chain. In 2024, 62 supplier sites achieved UL 
Solutions’ Zero Waste to Landfill (ZWTL) certification at 
Silver level or better, up from 10 sites when we launched our 
ZWTL program in 2021.43 This includes all final assembly 
sites and packaging sites worldwide for Echo, Kindle, Ring, 
Fire tablets, Fire TV devices, cables, and adapters.
We publish carbon footprints 
 and product 
sustainability fact sheets  assured by the Carbon Trust 
for all latest Echo, eero, Ring, Fire TV, and Fire tablet 
devices on our website to enhance transparency around 
the sustainability of our devices. In 2024, we updated 
these fact sheets to include carbon footprint comparisons 
against previous-generation models. We also launched 
our first carbon footprint fact sheet in the UK for our 
latest Echo device. We plan to roll these fact sheets out in 
more countries in 2025.
Appendix
36
Overview
Progress
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Providing More Sustainable 
Shopping Choices
Through our Climate Pledge Friendly program and its 
associated green leaf icon—visible across the online 
shopping experience on product display pages and 
in search—we highlight products certified as having 
one or more sustainability features. Our pre-owned 
programs enable customers to purchase products 
secondhand, giving products another life, and our product 
recommendation and augmented reality tools enable 
more informed purchasing decisions, improving the 
likelihood that products have a long useful life. Our repair 
services provide customers a chance to fix products they 
have already purchased, and our trade-in program allows 
customers to exchange items they are looking to replace. 
We continue to evolve the shopping experience to make 
more sustainable choices even easier.
Our Climate Pledge Friendly Program
Climate Pledge Friendly enables customers to discover 
products with sustainability features through badging 
and detailed product information across 60 trusted 
certifications. These certifications span features from 
recycled materials and organic contents to worker  
well-being and energy efficiency.
In 2024, the program continued to grow, with 38.8 million 
customers switching to certified products, bringing the 
total to 143.8 million switches since the program launched 
in 2020. In 2024, customers purchased over 1.7 billion 
certified units—a 48% increase from 2023. Business 
adoption also expanded in 2024, with 75,200 Amazon 
Business customers implementing preferential buying 
policies for certified products, up from 18,000 in 2022.
The program expanded to eight new countries in 2024 
(Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Mexico, 
Poland, and Sweden) now serving customers across 14 
international stores. We engaged nearly 272,000 selling 
partners, including approximately 41,000 new ones in 
2024, to qualify products that could be recognized by 
certifications in the Climate Pledge Friendly program. 
Based on research conducted with the University of 
Southern California Marshall School of Business , Climate 
Pledge Friendly products see a 12.5% sales lift on average 
within the first year of joining the program.44 We routinely 
assess the certification landscape, adding and developing 
new certifications in collaboration with trusted third 
parties and reviewing our existing ones against our high 
bar for transparency, credibility, and customer trust. In 
2024, we added three new certifications to support our 
international expansion, including Eco Mark, Orgánico 
México, and Orgânicos do Brasil.
Pre-owned, Product Recommendations,  
Repair, and Trade-In
We enable customers to make more sustainable choices by 
giving used inventory a second chance, providing tools to 
support customer decision-making, and offering repair and 
trade-in services, when possible. Our programs include:
•	 Ensuring customers buy the right products: To enable 
customers to find furniture or clothing accessories that 
complement their style, we provide augmented reality 
widgets that allow them to view an item in their home 
or even on themselves before physically receiving it. 
In 2024, customers viewed more than 660,000 
furniture, clothing, and clothing accessory items in 
augmented reality prior to making a purchase. These 
widgets have helped us reduce returns related to style 
for viewed items by more than 40%. Additionally, our 
deep learning-based algorithm provides real-time 
best-fit recommendations , allowing shoppers to 
find the right fit without needing to try them on first. 
In 2024, our size recommendation system analyzed 
millions of data points every day and generated billions 
of size recommendations each month for millions 
of customers across 20 locations around the world, 
including the U.S., India, and the UK.
•	 If products break, we provide options to get them 
repaired: We maintain a number of repair and product 
support programs  that customers can utilize to keep 
their products in functioning order. 
•	 Alternatives to buying new products: We offer 
customers the option to purchase previously used 
versions of 16% of the products they view. One 
program is Amazon Renewed , which has options 
that range from refurbished cellphones to espresso 
machines to secondhand books.
•	 If you’re done with your product, you can trade it 
in for a new one: Amazon Trade-In  lets customers 
trade in qualifying Amazon or non-Amazon devices 
in the U.S., the UK, and Germany for a gift card or 
promotional discount. All devices that are traded in 
by customers are evaluated and either recycled or 
refurbished for resale. In 2024, customers traded in 
more than 1 million devices.
Number of Products Recognized by  
Our Climate Pledge Friendly Program
250K
in 2021
550K
in 2022
1.4M+
in 2023
2.2M+
in 2024 
Amazon’s Kindle Colorsoft Signature Edition e-reader, 
our first color Kindle with a recycled cobalt battery.
Appendix
37
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Employee 
Experience
Goal
Invest $1.2B to provide education 
and skills training to over 300,000 
U.S. employees by 2025
439K
U.S. employees have participated 
in upskilling programs since we 
announced our Upskilling Pledge 
in 2019
Actions
$2.2B
Incrementally invested in 
pay for U.S. employees in 
frontline operations roles, 
bringing average pay to over 
$22 per hour and average total 
compensation to over $29 
per hour including the value 
of elected benefits
$653M
Invested in international 
wage increases
$37M
Saved for emergencies 
by employees through 
our paycheck-linked 
savings program
Nearly
$1B
In supplementary retirement 
benefits provided to over 
1 million U.S. employees
100K+
Employees participated 
in Career Choice, our free 
education and skills  
training program
Our Approach
With more than 1.5 million full- and part-time employees 
around the globe, we recognize the critical role our 
people play in our success. We strive to prioritize the 
physical, mental, and financial well-being of each Amazon 
employee, and take meaningful steps to support their 
work lives and their families’ needs.
We strive to be Earth’s best employer, offering more  
than just competitive wages and inclusive benefits. We 
also want our employees to develop their careers with 
us, and we offer upskilling opportunities that support 
individual goals. We listen to employees through a variety 
of feedback channels, using the insights to improve the 
employee experience and empower them to deliver  
for customers.
Our Progress
Prioritizing Compensation 
and Pay Equity
Amazon is one of the largest private employers in the 
U.S. Our pay practices affect our employees and their 
families as well as the local economies where they live. 
In the U.S., more than 800,000 of our employees work 
in hourly frontline operations roles. In 2024, we invested 
an incremental $2.2 billion in pay for our employees, 
bringing average hourly pay to over $22 and average total 
compensation to over $29 per hour when including the 
value of their elected benefits. This represents an average 
increase of $1.50 per hour from 2023, our largest annual 
investment in pay to date.
Amazon invested $653 million in international wage 
increases in 2024. In the UK, we increased compensation 
for frontline operations employees to at least £13.50, 
a 9.8% increase since April 2024. Since 2022, we 
invested £550 million in our UK operations employees, 
representing a 35% increase in hourly pay in just two 
years. In Germany, we increased the starting hourly wage 
for logistics employees to at least €15.00, a 39% increase 
over the last five years. On average, logistics employees 
in Germany receive an annual salary of €39,000 plus 
benefits after two years of service.
Pay Equity
Amazon is committed to compensating all employees 
equitably for comparable roles, responsibilities, and skills. 
We conduct an annual review of employee compensation, 
including base pay, cash bonuses, and stock shares. Our 
2024 review found that women we employ in the U.S. 
earned 99.9 cents and globally earned 99.9 cents for 
every dollar men earned performing comparable jobs. This 
review also showed that racial/ethnic minorities in the U.S. 
earned 99.4 cents for every dollar that white employees 
earned performing comparable jobs.
Offering Inclusive and 
Flexible Benefits
We offer a range of competitive benefits that are designed 
to meet the evolving needs of our employees and eligible 
family members, including their children and domestic 
partners. Our robust benefits program  is structured to 
prioritize physical and mental health, financial wellness, 
family-building support, and workplace and commuter 
Pay Equity by Country
Group
Country
Percentage 
Earned by 
Comparison
Women in Jobs 
Comparable to Men
Global
99.9
France
100.0
Germany
99.7
Italy
99.4
Spain
98.8
UK
99.9
U.S.
99.9
Racial and Ethnic 
Minorities in Jobs 
Comparable to 
White Employees’
U.S.
99.4
38
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
benefits. We make it easy for employees to discover 
and access benefits through our A to Z app and website, 
which 96% of employees visited each month in 2024. In 
total, we invested $10.8 billion in employee benefits in 59 
countries, a 7% increase over 2023.
For regular full-time and reduced-time employees, 
benefits start on their first day of employment and 
include health care insurance coverage, up to 100% paid 
prepartum and postpartum leave, ways to save for the 
future, and health and well-being resources.45 We also 
offer valuable benefits to seasonal employees.
Health and Well-Being Benefits
We look at our employees’ full range of health and 
well-being needs and provide medical coverage, mental 
health and wellness support, and life, disability, and other 
types of insurance. Amazon health insurance covered 
approximately 1.6 million employees and family members 
globally in 2024.
We integrate whole person care into our approach to 
promote health and wellness for enrolled members. In 
the U.S., we offer integrated primary care clinics providing 
affordable health care services, including primary 
care, behavioral health, and physical therapy. We have 
expanded access to 90-day prescriptions for chronic 
non-specialty medications across our pharmacy network, 
including Amazon Pharmacy, which offers same-day 
delivery, automatic price comparisons, and automatic drug 
discount card application at checkout. Additionally, all U.S. 
Amazon employees have access to a free 24/7 Medical 
Advice Line from their first day, regardless of medical plan 
enrollment, allowing them to talk with a registered nurse 
whenever and wherever they need medical advice. 
Amazon continues to support initiatives to fight cancer. 
To that end, members enrolled in a self-insured plan 
who are 45 years or older may request a free at-home 
colorectal cancer screening kit to increase early detection. 
Additionally, the Amazon Cancer Advocacy, Resources, 
Education, and Support (CARES) program provides 
high-touch, one-to-one support for employees and their 
family members who have been diagnosed. In 2024, 
CARES supported over 4,000 employees in 63 countries.
We prioritize comprehensive mental health support 
through two key programs. Our Employee Assistance 
Program (EAP) serves nearly 1.7 million employees, their 
families, and household members across 62 countries, 
offering up to six free counseling sessions per issue 
annually and a globally accessible therapeutic app for daily 
mental health support. It is available 24/7 in most major 
world languages, 100% confidential, and free of charge. 
Additionally, in 2024, we launched a custom mental health 
network through Lyra Health for employees enrolled in 
Amazon health plans. This service provides specialized 
mental health services on average within two days. 
We design our EAP benefits globally as an essential 
resource for employees and their families seeking daily 
guidance or support. In 2024, we expanded our wellness 
offerings by adding coaching in all countries outside the 
U.S. (except Ireland) to help employees manage weight, 
nutrition, physical activity, smoking/vaping cessation, and 
stress reduction.46 U.S. employees enrolled in a health 
plan, along with their spouses and dependents ages 
15 or older, can access Pelago, a digital clinic offering 
personalized, confidential treatment for substance use. 
Pelago’s physician-led program combines 
medication-assisted treatments with health goal-tracking 
tools, an on-demand library, and additional resources. 
Separately, Amazon broadened access to evidence-
based cognitive behavioral therapy and trauma-focused 
counseling services in additional regions around the world.
Financial Benefits
Amazon offers a number of benefits that help employees 
carve out a path to financial security. In 2024, we 
expanded the financial assistance program we began 
offering last year through Brightside Financial Care to all 
50 U.S. states. Customer fulfillment and transportation 
employees can use Brightside to reduce or consolidate 
debt, and personal coaches can recommend customized 
plans to improve financial health. The program provided 
$27 million worth of financial solutions and resources 
to hourly employees in 2024, up from nearly $14 million 
in 2023. More than 52,000 employees engaged in this 
program in 2024, an 82% year-over-year increase.
Our paycheck-linked savings program helps employees 
prepare for unexpected expenses and achieve personal 
financial goals through automatic payroll elections. In 
2024, employees allocated $37 million in emergency 
savings and over $5 million toward other financial goals 
through this program.
In 2024, we launched a new home purchase benefit to 
support employees, simplifying the process of obtaining a 
mortgage. We also added a tax-advantaged 529 educational 
savings benefit to assist employees in saving and investing 
for their children’s qualified post-secondary education 
expenses. We continued to support our employees with 
charitable giving through our Donor-Advised Fund benefit, 
which drove over $26 million in giving during the past year. 
We also offer supplementary retirement benefits in 37 
countries and provided nearly $1 billion in such benefits to 
over 1 million U.S. employees in 2024.
Family-Building Benefits
All U.S. employees enrolled in our self-insured medical 
plans—regardless of their gender, sexual orientation, 
or relationship status—have access to family-building 
benefits including in vitro fertilization, egg freezing, 
genetic testing, access to fertility specialists, adoption 
assistance and reimbursement, and more. In the U.S., we 
offer up to 20 weeks of paid leave for birthing parents, 
up to six weeks of paid parental leave for partners, and a 
reduced schedule for up to eight weeks after the birth or 
adoption of a child. Over 30,000 U.S. full-time and hourly 
Amazon employees utilized these family-building benefits 
in 2024. Employees in 55 other countries can access 
fertility navigation services. In 2024, we also expanded 
our contraception benefit for U.S. employees and 
dependents, allowing them to receive a 12-month supply 
of birth control pills.
Commuter Benefits
In 2024, we offered flexible commuter subsidies in 94%  
of countries where our employees live or work, regardless 
of how employees prefer to get to work—by car, public 
transportation, or bicycle. In the U.S., employees can also 
apply their subsidy toward vanpool, carpool, and rideshare.
Investing in Upskilling Programs 
for Our Employees
We want Amazon employees to grow meaningful careers, 
whether they stay with us or eventually work elsewhere. 
We believe that Amazon is one of the best places for career 
development because we are committed to skill building 
no matter an employee’s aspirations. Upskilling is key to 
our talent development approach, empowering employees 
to build the skills they need to remain competitive, grow 
their careers, and move into higher-paying roles. These 
efforts also assist in building a strong pipeline to fill 
current and future in-demand jobs, both at Amazon and 
elsewhere. We announced our Upskilling Pledge in 2019, 
and have used our allocated spend of $1.2 billion to invest 
in nine U.S. programs to fund education and technical skills 
training for Amazon employees. Since 2019, approximately 
439,000 employees have participated in the U.S. and 
710,000 participated globally.
Career Choice
Launched in 2012, Career Choice  is our longest-standing 
upskilling program. It offers a variety of training benefits 
for 41 career pathways in 14 countries through our global 
39
Progress
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
network of 652 educational partners. Over 100,000 
employees worldwide—more than 12% of all eligible 
associates—participated in Career Choice in 2024. By the 
end of 2024, the program had reached nearly 244,000 
participants since its launch in 2012.
Below are just some of our many Career Choice offerings:
•	 Prepaid tuition for associate and bachelor’s degrees in 
the U.S. and certificate programs globally. Nearly 1,300 
employees have earned their bachelor’s degrees since 
we launched this offering in the U.S. in 2022.
•	 41 industry certifications for in-demand roles in 
technology, health care, transportation, mechanical and 
industrial systems, and business and administration. We 
continue creating new pathways to in-demand roles for 
our employees.
•	 English and local language learning globally and U.S. 
high school completion and GED programs. Nearly 
1,700 participating employees have now earned their 
high school credential GEDs.
•	 Coaching to support employee career goals no matter 
where they are in their journey. Approximately 35,500 
employees in the U.S. participated through 2024.
Health care roles are in high demand, and Amazon’s 
Career Choice is helping associates move into new careers 
and fill vital positions through our pharmacy technician 
career pathway. Launched to support both internal 
Amazon hiring needs in Amazon Pharmacy as well as to 
fill the growing health care needs in our communities,  
this pathway creates meaningful career advancement for 
our associates. In 2024, 93% of participants completed 
the program, and 67% achieved certification.
Career Choice continues to evolve based on employee 
feedback. For example, in 2024, we removed the 90-day 
waiting period for new employees to enroll in the popular  
English- and local-language classes. Employees wanted 
access to this resource sooner after joining Amazon, and 
this change means that 108,000 more employees 
are now eligible for Career Choice language programs from 
the first day of employment. Approximately 10% of those 
who enroll do so in their first 90 days.
In-Demand Skills
Among our other upskilling programs , our Mechatronics 
and Robotics Apprenticeship program has trained 4,930 
people for careers as electromechanical technicians since 
2019. Graduates of this program, which is registered 
with the U.S. Department of Labor, make an average of 
$21,500 per year more than the typical starting wage for 
an entry-level fulfillment center role. In 2024, 100% of 
program graduates have found employment in the field.
Employee Engagement 
and Communications
Amazon uses various communication channels to 
maintain awareness of and responsiveness to changing 
dynamics, questions, concerns, and ideas across our large 
global workforce. This includes direct engagement, such 
as all-Amazon meetings with general managers,  
stand-up meetings with direct supervisors, and other 
one-on-one meetings.
Amazon’s Ethics Line allows employees to voice concerns 
and anonymously report violations of Amazon’s Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics . We provide other 
communications channels as well for employees to 
express concerns, share feedback, offer suggestions, and 
ask questions. For example, MyVoice—Amazon’s primary 
Voice of the Associate platform—provides a two-way 
communication channel between our global associates 
and their site leadership and is integrated within our 
A to Z app for a user-friendly mobile experience. In 2024, 
employees provided over 945,000 comments in MyVoice.
Connections is our real-time, companywide feedback 
mechanism, available in 62 countries and 29 languages. 
Each day, employees receive Connections questions via 
their computers, workstation devices, or hand scanners. 
Connections improves the employee experience by 
identifying obstacles to meaningful work, surfacing issues 
before they become acute problems, and highlighting 
strengths so they do not become missed opportunities. 
In 2024, employees generated more than 1.7 million 
Connections responses per day. Connections analyzes 
and aggregates individual response data, sharing it with 
managers at the team level to maintain confidentiality. 
Managers can then take relevant actions for improvement 
to build trust with their teams.
We also host Associate Roundtables, Forums, and Safety 
Committees. Associate Roundtables offer employees a 
meaningful opportunity to discuss issues, ask questions, 
and get immediate feedback from their managers and site 
leaders. Amazon hosts these meetings around the globe, 
with their exact cadence varying by business line and site.
In Associate Forums, employees elected by their peers 
meet directly with site management at regular intervals to 
share ideas, concerns, information, and feedback on key 
decisions that affect the site or the employee experience. 
Topics may include working practices, shift schedules, and 
employee well-being. At the end of 2024, we had 158 
active Associate Forums.
Associate Safety Committees provide an opportunity 
to describe new safety initiatives and gather employee 
feedback on relevant safety matters at various  
sites globally. 
Communication to our employees through safety training 
is also foundational to safety excellence. All operations 
employees receive safety training on their first day of 
employment, and it covers a variety of topics such as 
ownership of safety, incident reporting and investigation, 
and stop work authority. Training continues with routine 
reminders delivered through daily stand-up meetings, 
notifications in the A to Z employee app, messages on 
TV screens in our buildings, alerts when logging on to 
a workstation, e-learning modules, and wall posters in 
restrooms, break rooms, and other common areas. We 
also coach small groups of employees on body mechanics, 
proactive wellness, and safety through our Huddles 
program. Every employee and manager is expected to 
participate in annual safety training as well.
Learn more about health and safety at Amazon 
We respect the rights to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining  as well as workers’ right to 
join, form, or not to join a labor union or other lawful 
organization of their own selection, without fear of 
reprisal, intimidation, or harassment. Globally, Amazon 
applies or is party to dozens of collective bargaining 
agreements at national, regional, sectoral, and 
enterprise levels. In 2022, we established a European 
Works Council, which is composed of workers and 
employer representatives and meets regularly to discuss 
transnational company issues.
We offer a variety of training benefits for
our workforce through Career Choice, one of our
upskilling programs.
40
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Health 
and Safety
Our Approach
With an organization of more than 10,000 safety 
professionals dedicated to keeping over 1 million 
operations employees safe every day, nothing is more 
important than ensuring our people’s safety. We know 
that every person is someone’s mother, father, sibling, 
child, or best friend, and that’s why we’ve set an ambitious 
goal to become the benchmark of safety excellence across 
all industries in which we operate.
In 2024, we focused on expanding and executing an 
effective strategy to improve safety across our global 
operations, and it led to meaningful, measurable progress. 
While we’re encouraged by our continued progress, we 
know there’s more work to do, and we’re committed to 
further improvement as we work toward our goal.
Our Progress
Evaluating Our Safety Performance
We have made meaningful progress on global safety 
since 2019. Our Recordable Incident Rate (RIR), which 
encompasses any work-related injury requiring more 
than basic first-aid treatment, has shown measurable 
improvement. Over the past five years, we’ve seen a 34% 
reduction in RIR, with a 6% decrease year over year. Our 
Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR), which accounts for the 
most serious injuries requiring time away from work, has 
improved by 65% over the last five years, with  
a 13% reduction year over year.
Learn more about how Amazon’s safety performance 
improved year over year 
Safety in the United States
In the U.S., we report our operations data to the 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 
under various industry codes that reflect the kind of work 
we do across our network. The majority of our data is 
reported under the General Warehousing and Storage and 
Courier and Express Delivery Services codes. As seen on 
the following page, we continued making year-over-year 
progress across all categories, building on our meaningful 
progress over the past five years.
In the U.S. General Warehousing and Storage industry, our 
RIR improved by 27% over the past five years and 5% year 
over year.47 Within the same sector, LTIR showed a 79% 
improvement over the past five years and a 9% 
year-over-year reduction.
In the U.S. Courier and Express Delivery Services industry, 
we achieved a 50% improvement in our RIR over the past 
five years and a 16% reduction year over year.48 Our LTIR 
in this sector improved by 74% over the past five years, 
with a 25% reduction year over year.
These graphs illustrate our progress year over year and 
how we stack up against industry averages calculated by 
the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). The BLS calculates 
these averages using data from selected employers 
and releases them each November, so the most recent 
averages available are for 2023.
We’re continuing to make steady and meaningful 
progress. That said, we’ve never aspired to be average 
because when it comes to safety there is no such thing 
as “good enough.” We want to be the safest company in 
the industries in which we operate, so we’re consistently 
innovating and investing in safety measures. In 2025 
alone, we’ve allocated hundreds of millions of dollars to 
invest in technologies, resources, training, and programs 
to further our safety efforts.
Understanding Our Operations 
and Workforce
Globally, our operations network has more than doubled 
in size since 2019—to more than 1 million operations 
employees across more than 2,500 sites around the world.
Alongside that growth, we’ve worked hard to further build 
and evolve our culture of safety.
We know that we can’t get safety right without our 
employees’ feedback. We’ve created several ways for 
employees to give us feedback on how to improve, but 
one tool we’re especially proud of is Dragonfly. Available 
on employees’ devices or at on-site kiosks, Dragonfly 
enables employees to provide suggestions from the palm 
of their hand and notifies their site managers, who then 
take appropriate action as needed. In 2024, over 130,000 
employees used Dragonfly to provide suggestions. Some 
recommendations include small changes like repositioning 
a package scanner so it isn’t accidentally knocked over, 
while others involve more complex safety measures like 
adding laser motion sensors to alert forklift drivers when 
people are nearby. Whether simple or sophisticated, these 
improvements make a big difference at scale in creating a 
safer, simpler employee experience.
Auditing and Inspecting Our Sites
We consider both employee feedback and data when 
we’re identifying opportunities for improvement and 
developing proactive safety measures. This approach 
allows us to not only evaluate overall injury rates 
but also analyze the types and frequencies of injuries 
to help prevent them from happening in the first place. 
It’s why we rigorously audit and inspect our sites to make 
sure our resources and protocols are effectively helping us 
identify, eliminate, or reduce safety hazards. In 2024, we 
conducted 7.8 million inspections globally—a 24% increase 
from the 6.3 million conducted in 2023—and we audited 
331 sites across Amazon.
These audits and inspections also help us determine how 
to address the various types of injuries. The most common 
Actions
34%
Improvement in global operations 
Recordable Incident Rate (RIR) over 
the past five years and over 6% 
improvement from 2023. RIR includes 
any work-related injury that requires 
more than basic first aid treatment49,50
65%
Improvement in global operations 
Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) over the 
past five years and 13% improvement 
from 2023. LTIR includes any work-
related injury that requires someone 
to take time away from work (the 
most serious injuries)
7.8M
Internal inspections conducted 
globally—a 24% increase from the 6.3 
million we conducted in 2023
$2B+
Invested in our safety efforts  
since 2019
41
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
injury in any workplace—across all industries—is what’s 
called a musculoskeletal disorder (MSD), more commonly 
known as a strain or sprain. Over the past five years, the 
rate of MSD recordable incident rates at Amazon has 
improved 32%, but they still make up about 57% of all 
recordable injuries at Amazon. To continue reducing MSD 
injuries, we’ve devoted considerable resources to improve 
ergonomic conditions as part of our ongoing investments 
in safety improvements.
Investing in Safety Improvements
Since 2019, we’ve invested more than $2 billion in our 
safety efforts, including new technologies and programs 
to protect our employees. A key part of this investment is 
our focus on reducing MSD injuries. Across our operations 
network, we are retrofitting our sites with adjustable 
height workstations and carts, and implementing our 
proprietary, award-winning ErgoPick technology to ensure 
employees pick packages within their ergonomic power 
zone—the area between the shoulder and mid-thigh. 
We’ve also increased the use of robotics in our warehouses 
to handle repetitive tasks and heavy lifting that can lead 
to MSDs, supporting a safer workplace. Robot systems 
like Robin and Cardinal help sort, lift, and place packages. 
They handle repetitive tasks so our employees can work 
more comfortably. Additionally, one of our newest 
robotics systems, Sequoia, transports inventory directly 
to employees’ workstations at an ergonomically friendly 
height, eliminating the need for them to reach above 
their heads or squat. These are just a few examples of 
the innovations we’ve created to provide a safer work 
environment for our employees so they can focus on more 
engaging tasks.
In addition to investing in new technology, we also plan for 
things like extreme weather that can impact our employees’ 
and partners’ safety, and our policies and procedures for 
addressing the heat and cold are robust and often exceed 
industry standards. For example, Amazon-branded vans 
2020
2020
2020
2020
2019
2019
2019
2019
5.1
2.3
6.5
2.6
6.7
4.0
8.7
5.1
5.7
2.2
7.6
5.4
1.2
11.6
4.4
2.3
4.7
1.6
6.3
1.3
4.4
1.4
6.0
6.2
5.3
1.8
6.5
1.1
1.0
6.3
2.4
6.9
1.1
7.0
3.6
1.2
2021
2021
2021
2021
2022
2022
2022
2022
2022
2022
2022
2022
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2024
2024
2024
2024
2024
2024
2024
2024
Comparative Safety Data
Worldwide RIR*: 
34% improved (over the past five years)
Worldwide LTIR**: 
65% improved (over the past five years)
U.S. RIR: 
31% improved (over the past five years)
U.S. LTIR: 
76% improved (over the past five years)
U.S. LTIR Comparison Data for
General Warehousing and Storage
U.S. RIR Comparison Data for
General Warehousing and Storage
U.S. LTIR Comparison Data for
Courier and Express Delivery Services
U.S. RIR Comparison Data for
Courier and Express Delivery Services
BLS Average***
BLS Average
BLS Average
BLS Average
(For companies greater 
than 1k employees)
(For companies greater 
than 1k employees)
(For companies with
250-999 couriers)
(For companies with
250-999 couriers)
Amazon U.S. Only
Amazon U.S. Only
Amazon U.S. Only
Amazon U.S. Only
5.1
1.9
6.7
1.6
*Recordable Incident Rate (RIR)	 **Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)	 ***Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS)
42
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
come equipped with air conditioning, which is above 
industry standards, and if it isn’t working, the vehicle 
is taken out of service immediately. We also prioritize 
understanding emerging safety trends to help create 
safer working environments. As an example, while we 
hope to never have to use it, we stocked naloxone, an 
over-the-counter opioid overdose reversal medication, 
in our U.S. and Canada fulfillment centers to proactively 
strengthen our emergency response procedures.
We’re also proud that last year, we received eight different 
safety awards from respected organizations including 
the National Safety Council, Verdantix, and the Network 
of Employers for Traffic Safety. These awards recognized 
safety innovations like our proprietary ErgoPick, our 
AI-enabled sensor technology that helps reduce risks 
when loading trailers, our cutting-edge employee training 
programs, and our world-class safety professionals.
Working Safely with Our 
Operations Partners
Within our operations network, we work with partners 
around the world to deliver packages to our customers 
safely and efficiently. For example, we work with small 
business owners called Delivery Service Partners (DSPs) 
and independent contractors called Amazon Flex delivery 
partners to deliver packages to customers’ doorsteps. 
We also work with independent, long-haul trucking 
companies to move products across our network. We’re 
committed to helping our partners keep their employees 
safe by offering them access to industry-leading safety 
technologies, resources, and training.
Delivery Network
To help keep drivers and communities safe, we’re 
constantly designing and implementing new safety 
improvements to our branded vans used for last mile 
delivery. For example, all Amazon-branded vans are 
equipped with camera-based technology that helps 
monitor safe driving behaviors. The system provides 
real-time feedback on key safety behaviors including 
speed control, maintaining focus, proper seat belt use, 
and adherence to road signs. If unsafe behaviors are 
detected, drivers receive coaching notifications during 
their delivery stop, and if the behaviors do not improve, 
the driver’s employer—the DSPs—are notified so they 
can further coach the driver. We’re also introducing 
live safety cues (audible and visual) for drivers that 
proactively inform them of low-clearance bridges, railroad 
crossings, unpaved roads, and areas where they need to 
have additional awareness, such as school zones. We’ve 
enhanced the Amazon Flex app for delivery partners 
using their own vehicles with safety-focused features. 
These include alerts for potential roadway hazards and 
the presence of pets at delivery locations, as well as a new 
chat feature that lets delivery partners notify customers 
when they’re approaching.
Last year, we also began rolling out our latest invention: 
Vision-Assisted Package Retrieval (VAPR) technology. 
VAPR reduces time drivers spend looking for packages 
in their van. Based on early tests, results yielded a 67% 
reduction in perceived physical effort, and we’re excited 
to continue this rollout.
Freight Network
For long-haul transportation, we’ve made investments 
in safety through our Relay technology, which carriers 
use to book and execute work for Amazon. This includes 
implementing stringent driver ID verification for every load 
to ensure we know exactly who is handling our shipments. 
We’ve also enhanced our safety guidance and trip planning 
features that provide drivers with route-specific weather 
forecasts, in-app alerts, and satellite imagery for safe 
navigation. We also improved our fleet of more than 
50,000 branded trailers by adding flashing auxiliary lamps 
and reflective tape to ensure trailers are more visible to 
help drivers on the road maintain a safe distance.
Ultimately, we recognize that our scale demands exceptional 
road safety—a commitment recently acknowledged by the 
Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile’s (FIA) highest 
rating. It’s why we’re relentlessly creating and iterating 
new safety improvements for our partners to help keep 
them and the communities where they operate safe.
Amazon enhances long-haul safety with our Relay 
app, adding driver verification, route planning, 
and weather alerts.
43
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Inclusive 
Experiences
Actions
Tens of thousands of employees have participated 
in Amazon Huddles, micro-learning conversations 
that help build an inclusive culture
Hundreds of thousands of employees belong to 
volunteer-led groups that foster community and 
support and are open to all at Amazon
Our Approach
Amazon is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive 
company that helps us provide the best range of products 
and services for our vast and varied customer base. We build 
pathways for employees, partners, and customers from all 
backgrounds to work, collaborate, and shop with us.
Over the last several years, we’ve proven that this work is 
most effective when it is built into our business and into 
the way we work from the start, rather than through a 
“bolted-on” program. Our focus is on integrating inclusive 
practices into core business processes and fostering a 
truly inclusive culture. Whether it’s through the way 
we hire, develop talent, design our products, or serve 
our communities, we will continue driving our “built-in” 
strategy, creating scalable programs and technologies that 
serve our globally diverse customers.
Our Progress
Our Employees
We believe that technology provides us with the 
best path to reach more than 1.5 million full- and 
part-time employees. We use a comprehensive, 
data-driven approach to evaluate employee programs 
based on their demonstrated impact.
Our efforts are constantly evolving as we continue to 
measure outcomes and learn how we can further improve.
Since evolving to our “built-in” approach in 2022, 
we’ve made significant strides in identifying programs 
that deliver meaningful impact for our employees. 
In 2024, we continued to invest in the programs 
that demonstrated measurable results and had the 
potential to scale. For example, we expanded Amazon 
Huddles—micro-discussions that help build an inclusive 
culture—to reach tens of thousands of employees 
globally, seamlessly integrating it into everything from 
new-employee onboarding to ongoing team meetings. 
Employees have responded positively to these 15- to 
30-minute conversations on topics such as culture, 
well-being, and personal and professional growth. When 
an employee participates in Amazon Huddles, we see 
durable improvements in job satisfaction, managerial 
skills, and team connectivity.
The following are just a few additional examples of where 
we’ve built inclusive systems that are working better, 
at scale, for people across our ecosystem. They help us 
create an environment where people have the resources 
they need to do their best work.
•	 Promotions for our frontline employees. We learned 
that our promotion process for frontline operation roles 
was primarily being sourced from referrals by their 
managers. While that approach had good intentions, the 
focus on local site presence resulted in varying levels of 
access and opportunity across locations. To minimize 
the potential for bias, we built a tool called Fluid to 
surface opportunities to all employees who meet the 
minimum criteria for a frontline operation role. They 
can easily apply through an app and are then evaluated 
on their tenure and merit. This means that more people, 
from more geographies and backgrounds, have the 
best shot toward a frontline operation promotional 
opportunity based on their accomplishments.
•	 Hiring. Like most companies, we have a referral 
program where existing Amazonians can recommend 
someone who may be qualified for an open role. We 
have a recruiting team that will search the market for 
the best talent for individual roles. And we have also 
built a tool that works alongside those efforts to ensure 
we find talent from a wide range of backgrounds and 
life experiences. It sorts through the qualifications of 
tens of millions of applicants, surfacing the best talent 
based on eligibility requirements. This means that 
anyone, from any background, can be fairly evaluated if 
they’re interested in joining our team.
•	 Benefits. As we looked at who used our benefits, we saw 
that many eligible people weren’t using them. We dug 
into the reasons and realized that a root cause was a 
lack of awareness. Those who knew about the benefits 
used them, so we focused on raising awareness among 
all populations to ensure that when someone needs 
help—no matter who they are or where they are in the 
company—they know how to get it.
•	 Upskilling. Career Choice  has helped nearly 244,000 
employees pursue education with prepaid tuition, 
flexible schedules, and on-site classes. Similarly, our 
Apprenticeship  programs have created hundreds 
of paths into technical roles since 2017—in cloud 
computing, software development, robotics, and 
mechanical maintenance—by focusing on potential 
over prerequisites.
Learn more about Career Choice 
•	 Together at Amazon. We launched Together at Amazon 
in August 2024 to bring together participants in our 
employee-led groups, including affinity groups and 
informal employee networks. Self-led by Amazonians, 
these groups are open to all employees and offer 
community and support. Together at Amazon invites 
employees across operations sites, data centers, and 
corporate offices to actively participate in building 
a culture where each individual can connect, grow, 
and thrive. Together at Amazon also helps to guide 
employees toward proven, high-impact company 
programs, ranging from career development and 
upskilling resources to mental health support and 
community engagement opportunities. Among them 
is Growth Conversations, a resource we created to 
support meaningful career discussions between 
employees and managers. Growth Conversations is 
an optional, employee-led experience that provides a 
dedicated space for employees to explore and discuss 
goals, plan next steps, and check in on progress over 
time with their manager.
Our Customers
Amazon launched new product features and initiatives in 
2024 to help reach a broader audience and make it easier 
for customers with disabilities to enjoy our products.
Streaming Services and Product Accessibility
We added Dual Audio to the Fire TV, which allows users 
to stream audio through speakers and hearing aids 
simultaneously, making TV watching with hard-of-hearing 
44
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
friends more enjoyable. We also expanded Fire TV’s 
hearing aid compatibility beyond Cochlear and Starkey, 
adding WS Audiology (WSA) in 2024. On Prime Video, 
the new Dialogue Boost feature lets viewers increase 
the volume of dialogue relative to background music 
and effects to create a more comfortable and accessible 
viewing experience. In 2024, we also expanded the 
number of languages and audio-described titles across 
U.S. streaming services.
For the Kindle app on iOS, Android, and the Fire tablet, 
we added Assistive Reader to support customers who are 
blind or have low vision. This feature allows customers 
the flexibility to listen to their books—and read along 
with real-time highlighting. To improve access to product 
information, we rolled out new tactile-marked  
QR codes on inbox documentation for Kindles, Echo 
devices, and most Fire TVs. These QR codes link to 
comprehensive accessibility documents and quick-start 
guides, helping customers who are blind or have low 
vision access online content.
Amazon has relied on a major project collaboration tool 
to meet the needs of a wide range of assistive technology 
users at our company, including those who use screen 
readers, screen magnifiers, or alternative navigation. In 
2024, we leveraged our global reach to extend use of this 
tool to more than 100,000 third-party sellers, making it a 
requirement as part of their enterprise licenses.
In January 2025, we also launched enhanced product 
summary functionality to make online shopping more 
accessible for screen reader users and those relying on 
keyboard-only navigation. This feature identifies and 
presents critical product information in a streamlined 
interface. As a result, blind- or low-vision shoppers can 
find the most relevant information about the products 
they’re browsing and more quickly make informed 
purchase decisions.
Inclusive Access in TV, Film, and Music
Amazon continues to invest in strategic partnerships and 
programs to support the development of talent across TV, 
film, and music. In 2024, Amazon MGM Studios remained 
the primary sponsor of the Latino Film Institute’s Youth 
Cinema Project Alumni Program, which connects students 
to industry mentoring and assistance with college 
applications. Our collaboration with the Cherokee Nation 
provided full-ride scholarships to Cherokee Film Institute’s 
inaugural 2025 class. In the UK, our Prime Video Pathway 
partnership with the National Film and Television School 
expanded career opportunities in TV and film nationwide. 
We also sponsored the 2025 ReelAbilities Film Festival, 
the largest showcase for stories from the disability 
community, as well as the 2025 Easterseals Disability Film 
Challenge. In the music sector, Amazon Music renewed its 
collaboration with the Recording Academy’s Black Music 
Collective through the Your Future Is Now scholarship 
program. Additionally, we supported the MusiCares 
Humans of Hip-Hop program, a multi-year initiative 
that provides access to under-represented communities 
for financial, medical, and mental health services, and 
partnered with the Association of Independent Music and 
Women in CTRL to launch the Amplify apprenticeship for 
women and non-binary talent in the UK music industry.
Reliable Access to Broadband
Project Kuiper  is among our most ambitious initiatives 
to expand access to reliable broadband. Through a 
constellation of 3,200 satellites in low Earth orbit, we will 
bring fast, affordable service to unserved and underserved 
communities around the world. This effort will benefit 
a wide range of customers, including schools, hospitals, 
businesses, government agencies, and others that operate 
in places without reliable connectivity or that need more 
flexible, resilient communications capabilities. We began 
deploying our satellite constellation in early 2025, and 
expect to roll out service later in the year.
Our Communities
With our size, speed, and innovative culture, Amazon’s 
philanthropic and volunteering initiatives are driving 
change on a global scale. We are active in neighborhoods 
around the world, creating inclusive experiences that offer 
more opportunities to succeed. For example, education 
initiatives around Science, Technology, Engineering, and 
Mathematics (STEM); engagement with institutions that 
support people from all backgrounds; and direct exposure 
to work at Amazon through our JumpStart  program, all 
help create paths to employment across our communities.
Among our latest initiatives, In This Together (ITT) 
helps us respond to community needs through targeted 
economic and technological advancement opportunities. 
ITT provides access to a curated list of Amazon resources 
for civic organizations, professional associations, and 
educational institutions globally. It covers a few key 
areas, including career and hiring opportunities, supplier 
development, business ownership pathways, seller 
education and resources, training and certifications,
discount programs, and accessibility solutions.
Amazon products also help make our communities 
safer through programs such as Ring Home, where 
we donated Ring Home security cameras over the last 
two years to domestic violence survivors through our 
collaboration with TechSoup and the National Network 
to End Domestic Violence.
Learn more about Amazon’s outreach efforts in our 
Community Impact section 
In This Together 
In This Together (ITT) helps us respond to community 
needs in these key areas:
Discover
Hiring and career building programs 
such as Career Choice
Supply
Supplier development programs 
like Impact Initiative
Own
Business ownership opportunities 
like Road to Ownership (R2O)
Sell
Seller University and resources such 
as Amazon Partnered Carrier
Learn
Training and certifications through 
AWS Educate, AWS Academy, and 
Amazon Future Engineer
Access
Discount programs and accessibility 
solutions through Amazon Access
45
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Community 
Impact
Goal
Add $1.4 billion to the Housing 
Equity Fund to create and preserve an 
additional 14,000 affordable homes
$2.2B
Invested to create or preserve more 
than 21,000 affordable homes, 
supporting more than 44,700 residents
Goal
Distribute up to $60 million in AWS 
cloud computing credits to support 
global health by the end of 2024
$60M
In cloud computing credits awarded to 
403 organizations since 2021
Goal
Help 29 million people globally grow 
their technical skills by providing free 
cloud computing training by 2025
31M
People helped in 2024
Actions
250K+
Amazon employees from over 
55 countries volunteered with 
7,000 organizations
$350M+
Contributed to support 2,600 
community partners globally
95M
Meals donated or delivered
to households in need
39
Natural disasters responded 
to across 19 countries
7.8M+
Students reached from 
underserved communities 
globally through Amazon 
Future Engineer programs
Our Approach
We aim to make our customers’ lives better and easier 
every day and to have a positive impact on our local 
communities all around the world, using our scale and 
abilities to take on some of society’s most pressing 
challenges. We work side by side with local community 
partners and nonprofits to create and drive programs 
that help advance access to affordable housing, 
alleviate hunger, strengthen education, and build skills 
for the future, and we mobilize our infrastructure and 
technology to support communities impacted by natural 
disasters. We’re also focused on providing employees 
with volunteering opportunities so they can give back 
directly to communities where they work and live.
We also support nature conservation and climate 
resilience in communities around the world .
Learn more in our 2024 Community Impact Reports:
•	 Puget Sound 
•	 National Capital Region 
Our Progress
Expanding Access to Critical  
Social Needs
We focus our time and resources on expanding access 
to critical social needs like affordable housing, food, and 
education, so that individuals and families can thrive.
Affordable Housing
We believe everyone should have access to housing they 
can afford. However, the possibility of homeownership 
remains out of reach for many in the U.S., especially 
for low-income families. In January 2021, we launched 
the Housing Equity Fund with the goal of increasing 
access to affordable homes. When the Fund started, 
we committed $2 billion to help create and preserve 
20,000 affordable homes across three of our hometown 
communities—Washington State’s Puget Sound region; 
the Arlington, Virginia/National Capital region; and 
Nashville, Tennessee. We exceeded this original goal 
two years early by providing $2.2 billion to create and 
preserve more than 21,000 affordable homes. In 2024, 
we announced an expanded commitment of $1.4 billion 
to create and preserve an additional 14,000 homes, 
bringing Amazon’s total commitment to $3.6 billion to 
help create or preserve 35,000 affordable homes in these 
three communities.
Addressing Food Security
We use our logistics, technology, and infrastructure to 
innovate on behalf of people facing food insecurity. 
This includes mobilizing our transportation network to 
provide bulk food transport, as well as free meal deliveries 
to households in need.  In addition, we are increasing 
collaboration with food rescue and redistribution 
organizations across the U.S. In 2024, Amazon donated or 
delivered 95 million meals to food banks, nonprofits, and 
households in need:
•	 Delivered 56.5 million meals on behalf of food banks 
and nonprofits across 13 countries worldwide, including 
12.5 million meals to U.S. households
•	 Donated 38.5 million meals through Amazon Fresh 
product and cash donations to the Feeding America 
network, reaching over 40 local partner food banks 
in the U.S. to redistribute surplus food to people 
experiencing hunger51
Beyond donations, our efforts to be a socially responsible 
grocer extend to making grocery shopping more affordable 
for the community. In 2024, we launched Temporary 
Assistance for Needy Families (“Cash EBT”) payment 
acceptance in 21 states through Amazon Access ,  
a program for low-income individuals that also enables 
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits 
46
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
acceptance for groceries. We also partner with 
organizations like Partnership for a Healthier America to 
improve nutrition accessibility.
In partnership with Food Donation Connection, Whole 
Foods Market donates millions of pounds of perishable 
and nonperishable food annually to local food banks and 
food rescue agencies across the U.S. In 2024, over 28 
million meals were donated to 1,030 unique food rescue 
and redistribution programs across the country through 
Whole Foods Market. To further promote access to quality 
food, the Nourishing Our Neighborhoods  program 
has donated 54 refrigerated vans to help community-
based programs distribute food. Learn more about how 
we increase access to healthy food in the Whole Foods 
Market’s 2023 Impact Report 
Health Resources
In July 2024, AWS concluded the AWS Health Equity 
Initiative (HEI) , a $60 million commitment to use cloud 
technology to address disparities in global health. Over three 
years, HEI supported 403 organizations across 39 countries, 
reaching every continent except Antarctica, reflecting 
the growing span of health customers and their focus on 
utilizing technology to address access to health care.
Access to Education and Skills-Building
We develop and advance programs that empower learners 
of all ages and skill levels with digital education and 
technical skills to prepare more people for jobs of the future.
This includes giving school-age students opportunities to 
prepare for future education and careers in technology. 
One example is our childhood-to-career computer science 
program, Amazon Future Engineer , which reached more 
than 7.8 million students in 2024 across grade levels, up 
from 3.9 million in 2023. Another example is AWS Think 
Big Spaces, which provide interactive STEM education in 
tech-related fields such as robotics, coding, and artificial 
intelligence (AI). In 2024, 82,000 K-12 students and 
educators participated in 93 of these spaces. AWS also 
offers the AWS Machine Learning University educator 
enablement program , which trains employees on the 
theory and practical application of machine learning (ML) 
and AI.
As of the end of 2024, we delivered free cloud computing 
skills training to 31 million learners—surpassing our goal 
to help 29 million people by 2025. Similarly, through 
AWS’s free AI skills training initiative, AI Ready , we 
reached our target of training 2 million learners globally 
with free AI skills, achieving both milestones ahead of our 
2025 commitment. AWS offers more than 135 free and 
low-cost courses and learning resources on AI, ML, and 
generative AI. In addition, AWS InCommunities , 
Amazon’s community efforts in data center locations, 
focuses on STEM education, local skills development, 
sustainability, and hyper-local social impact. In 2024, AWS 
launched 11 InCommunities funds and allocated nearly 
$2 million globally in hyper-local funding.
For those just starting their careers or looking to break 
into a new field, the AWS AI and ML Scholarship 
program , in collaboration with Udacity, awarded 2,500 
scholarships in 2024 to support students globally to learn 
foundational skills to prepare for careers in technology.
The AWS Skills to Jobs Tech Alliance , an educational 
and skills training program, has now connected 37,000 
learners to employers.
We also support organizations that build digital learning 
solutions for underserved learners. For example, in 2024, 
AWS launched the AWS Education Equity Initiative , 
a $100 million commitment of cloud and AI technology 
to support innovative learning solutions such as coding 
curriculums, AI assistants, and more.
Learn more about skill development programs in this 
year’s AWS Summary 
AI for Social Good
Amazon is committed to unlocking the potential of AI for 
social good. AWS’s AI for Changemakers (AI4C)  program 
provides nonprofits and social enterprises with cloud 
credits, technical training, and mentorship to build and 
scale AI-based solutions that address global challenges. 
As part of AI4C, AWS launched the Now Go Build CTO 
Fellowship, a mentorship program for senior technical 
leaders. AWS also supports the United Nations-led digital 
platform, AI for Good , investing $800,000 with 10 
organizations and projects to identify practical AI solutions 
that advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Supporting Disaster Relief 
and Response Efforts
Whether in times of immediate crisis or when long-term 
support is needed, we respond by showing up in communities. 
Through Amazon Disaster Relief, we leverage our 
technology and global logistics network to provide fast, 
effective aid for communities affected by natural disasters. 
Our 15 global Disaster Relief Hubs across the U.S., Europe, 
Asia, and Australia are facilities stocked with relief items 
including shelter materials, hygiene supplies, and medical 
equipment. In 2024, Amazon provided support during 39 
disasters across 19 countries—including the devastating 
hurricanes in the Southeast U.S. and flooding across 
central Europe and Southern Spain. Amazon donated 
$10 million to support the Southern California wildfires 
in January 2025, including donating 550,000 items from 
its Wildfire Disaster Relief Hub, as well as providing 
AWS cloud technology, including drone support, to help 
emergency responders quickly assess and react to the 
wildfires’ conditions. We used our logistics network to 
donate and deliver 4.1 million relief items to nonprofit 
partners. We also deployed our AWS cloud technology to 
help local governments and organizations stay connected, 
providing nearly $2 million in AWS credits to 41 customers 
affected by eight natural disasters.
Giving Back through Volunteering Efforts
Amazon also contributes to building healthy communities 
through employee volunteering. During our 2024 Global
Month of Volunteering , Amazon employees from over 
50 countries participated in more than 5,000 volunteering 
events. Throughout the year, over 250,000 participants 
volunteered with 7,000 nonprofit and community 
organizations across over 55 countries. In addition, our pro 
bono program enabled more than 1,400 legal and public 
policy professionals to provide 16,200 hours of free legal 
support globally in 2024.
We mobilized our European Disaster Relief Hub and 
volunteer employees to aid those impacted by flooding 
in southeastern Spain.
47
Boards of Directors 
Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee
Responsible for overseeing 
management of risks related 
to our sustainability and other 
environmental and corporate  
social responsibility practices, 
including risks related to our 
operations and our supply chain.
Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee
Responsible for overseeing 
management of risks related 
to succession planning and 
compensation for our executive 
officers and our overall 
compensation program, including 
our equity-based compensation 
plans, as well as risks related to 
other human capital management 
matters, including workplace 
health and safety, culture, diversity, 
discrimination, and harassment.
Audit Committee
Responsible for overseeing 
management of risks related to our 
financial statements and financial 
reporting process, assessment of 
risks related to business continuity 
and operational risks, the 
qualifications, independence, and 
performance of our independent 
auditors, the performance of our 
internal audit function, legal and 
regulatory matters, our compliance 
policies and procedures, tax 
planning and compliance, and 
political contributions and 
lobbying expenses.
Security Committee 
Oversees the company’s policies 
and procedures for protecting the 
company’s security infrastructure 
and for compliance with applicable 
data protection and security 
regulations, and related risks. 
The Security Committee receives 
reports regarding such risks from 
management, including our Chief 
Security Officer, and reports to 
the Board at least annually. The 
committee also oversees the 
Board’s response to any significant 
cybersecurity incidents.
4 Meetings Held
5 Meetings Held
6 Meetings Held
2 Meetings Held
Committees met with Management and reviewed Topics that included:
•	 the Board’s composition, 
diversity, and skills in the 
context of identifying and 
evaluating new director 
candidates to join the Board;
•	 the Board’s recruitment and self-
evaluation processes;
•	 Board compensation;
•	 Board Committee membership 
and qualifications;
•	 consideration of the Company’s 
policies and initiatives regarding 
sustainability, corporate social 
responsibility, and corporate 
governance;
•	 review of the Company’s 
approach to responsible AI 
development and AI governance;
•	 review of recent public relations 
initiatives; and
•	 feedback from the Company’s 
shareholder engagement.
•	 the design, amounts, and 
effectiveness of the Company’s 
compensation of senior 
executives;
•	 management succession 
planning;
•	 the Company’s benefit and 
compensation programs;
•	 the Company’s human 
resources programs, including  
review of workplace 
discrimination and harassment 
reports, worker health 
and safety and workplace 
conditions, and diversity and 
inclusion matters; and
•	 feedback from the Company’s 
shareholder engagement, 
particularly with respect to the 
2024 advisory vote approving 
the compensation of our named 
executive officers.
•	 the Company’s risk assessment, 
including business continuity 
and operational risks, and 
compliance functions;
•	 data privacy;
•	 policies, procedures, 
and reports on political 
contributions and lobbying 
expenses;
•	 treasury and investment 
matters;
•	 tax matters;
•	 financial statements and 
financial reporting;
•	 accounting industry issues;
•	 the performance of our internal 
audit function;
•	 the reappointment of our 
independent auditor; and
•	 pending litigation and regulatory 
compliance.
•	 the Amazon Security 
organization’s ongoing 
investments in the Company’s 
security infrastructure and 
management of and response 
to cybersecurity risks as well as 
physical security risks;
•	 cybersecurity-related 
internal audit findings and 
initiatives; and
•	 regulatory and governance 
updates related to 
cybersecurity.
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Responsible
Business
Practices
Our Approach
Amazon works to prioritize responsible business practices 
and strong governance. Operating ethically and with 
integrity is a nonnegotiable part of how we do business. 
It is crucial to how we develop, deploy, and support our 
product and service offerings and maintain trust with 
our stakeholders. We also engage in public policy efforts 
both in the U.S. and globally on issues that matter to our 
customers, stakeholders, investors, and business.
Our Progress 
Corporate Governance 
Amazon’s Board of Directors  (the “Board”) is responsible 
for the control and direction of Amazon. The Board 
represents the shareholders, and its primary purpose is to 
build long-term shareholder value. The full Board regularly 
reviews reports from management on various aspects 
of our business, including related risks and tactics and 
strategies for addressing them.
Risk Oversight
The Board and its committees oversee executives’ 
management of risks relevant to the company. While the 
full Board has overall responsibility for risk oversight, the 
Board has delegated responsibility related to certain risks 
to the Audit Committee; the Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee; the Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee; and the Security Committee.
Amazon’s Board Oversight
The Board actively oversees Amazon’s sustainability and 
corporate governance policies and initiatives, receives 
periodic reports on and discusses our enterprise risk 
assessments, oversees and receives regular reports on our 
regulatory compliance, and reviews shareholder feedback 
on these topics as we evolve our practices and disclosures.
The Board meets regularly during the year and holds 
special meetings and acts by unanimous written consent 
whenever circumstances require. Throughout 2024, the 
Board held five in-person meetings and participated in 
regularly scheduled teleconference discussions on various 
topics, generally on a monthly basis.
Oversight and Management of  
Climate-Related Issues
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 
is responsible for overseeing management of risks 
related to our sustainability and other environmental and 
corporate social responsibility practices, including risks 
related to our operations and our supply chain.
The Chief Sustainability Officer oversees Amazon’s 
Sustainability team and provides updates to the 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. 
Amazon’s Sustainability team coordinates efforts across 
the company to oversee operational changes that 
help reduce or eliminate carbon in our businesses. We 
developed a companywide carbon system of record that 
Board Committee Structure and Oversight
48
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
provides information to business teams on their emissions 
and allows them to track decarbonization progress. The 
Sustainability team reports to the senior leadership team 
on various aspects of our environmental, sustainability, 
and other relevant practices on a quarterly basis. 
Amazon’s senior leadership team also holds quarterly 
business reviews with the leadership teams of all our 
major businesses to track progress toward meeting our 
commitments under The Climate Pledge.
Human Rights Governance
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 
oversees and monitors Amazon’s policies and initiatives 
relating to corporate social responsibility, including human 
rights and ethical business practices, and related risks 
most relevant to Amazon’s operations and engagement 
with customers, suppliers, and communities. The Chief 
Sustainability Officer provides updates on progress to 
the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. 
In addition, the Board’s Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee oversees and monitors the 
Company’s strategies and policies related to human 
capital management within the company’s workforce, 
including with respect to policies on nondiscrimination in 
employment, our workplace environment and safety, and 
corporate culture.
In 2024, Amazon appointed a Human Rights Officer 
(HRO) to oversee risk management of human rights and 
environmental risks to meet regulatory requirements. 
The HRO reports directly to Amazon’s Chief Sustainability 
Officer and facilitates regular updates on Amazon’s risk 
management activities to senior leadership of relevant 
Amazon entities. Relying on the core resources of a central 
team, Amazon’s HRO partners with local teams to monitor 
these Amazon risk management activities.
Learn more about how we embed human rights into our 
decision-making  
Shareholder Engagement
We believe that effective corporate governance includes 
year-round engagement with our shareholders. Our 
shareholder engagement team includes employees whose 
full-time, year-round responsibilities include engaging 
with our investors, communicating with management and 
directly with our Board members to inform them on topics 
discussed and feedback received in the course of their 
engagement meetings, and coordinating and promoting 
the effectiveness of direct shareholder engagement 
meetings that our directors participate in.
From the beginning of 2024 through April 10, 2025, when 
we filed our 2025 Proxy Statement, we engaged with 70 
of our 100 largest unaffiliated shareholders, as well as with 
numerous other shareholders. Our lead independent 
director, the Chair of the Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee, or the Chair of the Leadership 
Development and Compensation Committee participated 
in meetings with shareholders owning more than 25% of 
our stock, including one-on-one or small group meetings 
with most of our 20 largest shareholders.
Our direct engagement with shareholders helps us better 
understand our shareholders’ priorities, perspectives, 
and areas of concern, while giving us an opportunity 
to elaborate on our many initiatives and practices and 
to address the extent to which various aspects of these 
matters are (or are not) significant given the scope and 
nature of our operations and our existing practices. We 
take insights from this feedback into consideration and 
regularly share them with our Board as we review and 
evolve our practices and disclosures.
Business Ethics
Acting ethically and with integrity is essential in how our 
employees make decisions and interact effectively with 
one another; in how we develop, deploy, and support 
our product and service offerings; and in our ability to 
establish and maintain strong relationships with our 
customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders.
Amazon has policies and practices in place to help 
enforce adherence to local, state, federal, and laws of 
other countries. Our Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics , associated policies, procedures, training, and 
communications outline our expectations of employees.
The Business Conduct and Ethics program is led by the 
Vice President for Business Conduct and Ethics, who 
reports to the Senior Vice President, Chief Global Affairs 
& Legal Officer. Our Business Conduct and Ethics program 
includes an annual risk assessment and compliance 
goal-setting process that is informed by client interviews 
and leadership of each department, a whistleblower 
hotline, centralized investigation and reporting of 
violations, a due diligence program designed to detect 
potential compliance issues with third parties before 
engaging in business transactions with those third parties, 
a conflict of interest program and disclosure mechanism, 
a gifts, entertainment, and travel program, and a wide 
variety of online and in-person training about compliance-
related topics and the company’s compliance policies.
Maintaining an Ethical Culture
Amazon has zero tolerance for bribery and/or corruption 
in any form for any of our businesses. Our anti-corruption 
compliance program—part of a centralized global 
compliance program—is led by the Vice President for 
Business Conduct and Ethics and the Global Business 
Conduct and Ethics team with regional oversight. It is 
informed by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and 
Anti-Bribery Policy, which include outright prohibitions on 
bribery of any kind. We reinforce these policies through 
regular online and live trainings with employees.
Amazon maintains extensive financial transaction 
controls. Groups within accounting, finance operations 
services, accounts payable, and payroll own processes 
designed to identify, monitor, and evaluate risks including 
fraud, misappropriation of assets, corruption, and 
financial reporting integrity. Control functions like finance, 
procurement, and internal audit collaborate with the Business 
Conduct and Ethics team to detect and prevent corruption.
Our gift and entertainment reporting mechanism requires 
employees to disclose and seek approval for qualifying gifts 
or services received from third parties or given to government 
officials. We also provide a mechanism for employees to 
disclose potential conflicts of interest and receive guidance 
on necessary remediation.
Amazon actively encourages our employees to report any 
issues or concerns without fear of reprisal, intimidation, 
or harassment and provides various secure and accessible 
channels to do so. Any employee can go directly to 
Human Resources, the Legal Department, or any manager 
with questions about the application of the Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics or how to approach difficult 
workplace situations.
Employees can also voice concerns, anonymously report 
potential violations of Amazon’s Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics, and ask questions about potentially unethical 
conduct through Amazon’s Ethics Line. The Ethics Line 
is currently available in 65 countries in 165 languages. 
Reports received through the Ethics Line are routed to the 
appropriate teams with the knowledge and experience to 
address the employee’s particular issue.
We prohibit retaliation and take all allegations seriously. 
Our Business Conduct and Ethics team records, and where 
appropriate investigates (or directs others to investigate) 
and reports alleged violations of the Code of Conduct to the 
Audit Committee of the Board. The Business Conduct and 
Ethics team also tracks any remediation required. Employees 
must cooperate in internal investigations of alleged 
misconduct, with those who violate the Code of Conduct 
subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge.
Responsible Business Practices
49
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Carbon and Energy
Waste and Circularity
Packaging
Water
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Responsible Supply Chain
Sustainable Products
Employee Experience
Health and Safety
Inclusive Experiences
Community Impact
Responsible Business Practices
Senior leadership receives regular updates on allegations of 
unlawful harassment and discrimination against employees 
in director-level positions or above, and on investigation 
progress and findings. The Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee receives detailed quarterly 
updates on any allegations of unlawful harassment and 
discrimination against employees in vice-president-level 
positions or above, or employees externally investigated  
on our behalf.
Amazon maintains an appeals process for our employees. 
Across the U.S. and Canada, eligible employees can submit 
an appeal through an online service to challenge certain 
disciplinary actions. The applicable manager reviews the 
claim to verify policies have been correctly applied. Where 
this is not the case, appropriate remediation can then  
be taken.
Learn more about how we gather and implement 
employee feedback 
Training
Integrity and ethics begin with our leaders and Board. 
Amazon’s Board receives training on the Code of Conduct, 
anti-corruption, and competition. All employees (including 
part-time and seasonal employees) receive Code of 
Conduct training during onboarding, with regular refresher 
training thereafter. Employees may receive additional anti-
corruption and anti-bribery training based on their roles, 
as well as competition training and training on 
discrimination and harassment.
Advancing Anti-Corruption Efforts with 
Governments and Industry Partners
In 2024, we strengthened our engagement externally 
to drive progress and cooperation. We are a part of 
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development’s Galvanizing the Private Sector program , 
which includes its Anti-Corruption Leaders Hub (ACLH), a 
working group of public officials, civil society groups,  
and private sector compliance leaders. ACLH is an 
important forum for advancing efforts toward digitizing 
compliance information and transaction data and 
expanding local partner vetting programs—which are 
among Amazon’s priorities.
Supplier Development and Impact
Amazon works with thousands of suppliers globally, 
ranging from small local businesses to large multinational 
corporations. One of the mechanisms for ensuring we 
continue to build a robust global supply base is through 
Supplier Development and Impact (SDI) , which provides 
qualified and competitive Disadvantaged-Owned 
Businesses (DOBs) a fair opportunity to compete within 
our supply chain.
Amazon’s SDI Tier 1 spend—direct payments to DOBs 
for goods and services—increased from $4.3 billion in 
2023 to $9.7 billion in 2024. We increased purchases with 
existing suppliers in our supply chain and also identified 
new companies, bringing the total number of qualified, 
competitive DOBs to more than 500. In 2024, we made 
direct payments to DOBs in seven countries.
Amazon SDI creates impact through both direct spend 
with DOBs and through our Tier 2 program, where 
Tier 1 suppliers are encouraged to include qualified and 
competitive DOBs in their sourcing activities. In 2024, 
243 Tier 1 suppliers shared that more than $2.1 billion in 
Tier 2 spend was achieved.52 Through improved processes 
and technologies, our spend with DOBs strengthened 
economic impact in the U.S. by supporting 69,000 jobs 
and generating approximately $4.2 billion in wages and 
nearly $1 billion in taxes.53
Data Protection and Security
We design our systems with the customer’s security  
and privacy in mind. Learn more about how we protect 
your data 
Additional Amazon Privacy Resources:
• Amazon.com Privacy Notice
• AWS Privacy Notice
• Advertising, Data Protection and Privacy Policy
• Law Enforcement Information Requests
Policy and Advocacy
Amazon’s public policy work serves our customers by 
encouraging long-term legal and regulatory preparedness 
for our existing and future businesses. We engage with 
policymakers on a wide range of issues and also partner 
with multilateral organizations, industry associations, 
coalitions, and other stakeholders to advance our 
positions . For example, we advocate in support of public 
policy that aligns with our commitment to reach net-zero 
carbon emissions across our global supply chain by 2040, 
including carbon-free energy, and on policies aimed at 
reducing packaging materials.
We publish an annual political engagement statement 
detailing our U.S. lobbying activities and disclosing 
spending on ballot initiatives and public organizations, as 
well as with state and local representatives. In the EU, we 
disclose our activities in the EU Transparency Register and 
national registries, where required.
Our Senior Vice President, Chief Global Affairs & Legal 
Officer, who oversees our global public policy organizations, 
and the Audit Committee of the Board annually review 
this U.S. Political Engagement Policy and Statement. They 
also review related procedures, and a report on all the 
company’s campaign contributions and lobbying expenses, 
including donations made to other organizations that may 
engage in indirect lobbying on behalf of the company.
Learn more about our policy positions  and 
public policy efforts 
Responsible Artificial 
Intelligence (AI)
From reducing packaging and food waste to powering 
fulfillment and data center operations more efficiently, 
Amazon has been innovating  with AI and ML for decades. 
As one of the world’s leading developers and deployers 
of AI tools and services, Amazon supports fostering the 
safe, responsible, and effective use of AI technology. 
We are dedicated to driving innovation on behalf of our 
customers while also establishing and implementing 
the necessary safeguards to protect our customers, 
end users, and everyday consumers. Amazon remains 
committed to continued collaboration with policymakers, 
industry, researchers, and the AI community to advance 
the responsible use of AI.
In February 2024, Amazon joined the U.S. Artificial 
Intelligence Safety Institute (AISI) Consortium, established 
by NIST, and in May 2024, joined the Frontier Model Forum 
to advance AI safety and security through best practices 
development. This partnership focuses on AI model 
evaluations and information sharing between industry, 
academia, government, and civil society. In November 
2024, AWS became the first major cloud provider to 
receive ISO/IEC 42001 certification for its AI services, 
including Amazon Bedrock, Amazon Q Business, Amazon 
Textract, and Amazon Transcribe. ISO/IEC 42001 is the 
international standard establishing requirements for 
responsible AI system development.
Learn more about how Amazon is building AI with 
responsibility in mind 
50
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Data Tables
Priority Topics Assessment
Endnotes
Assurance Statements
Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements
Data Tables
Amazon’s Carbon Footprint
Carbon
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
YoY%
Carbon Intensity 
(grams of CO₂e per $ of merchandise sales)
122.8
102.7
100.8
85.7
75.6
72.6
-4%
Emissions Category (MMT CO₂e)
Emissions from Direct Operations (Scope 1)
5.76
9.62
12.11
13.02
14.22
15.13
6%
Fossil Fuels
5.57
9.37
11.89
12.60
13.85
14.80
7%
Refrigerants
0.19
0.25
0.22
0.42
0.37
0.33
-11%
Emissions from Purchased Electricity (Scope 2)*
5.50
5.27
4.07
3.06
2.76
2.80
1%
Emissions from Indirect Sources (Scope 3)*
39.91
45.75
55.36
49.02
47.40
50.32
6%
Purchased Goods and Services (Amazon corporate purchases made for Amazon’s operations and services, Amazon-branded products)
17.16
16.46
17.24
5%
Capital Goods
9.11
8.45
9.99
18%
Fuel and Energy-Related Activities
4.40
5.03
4.55
-10%
Upstream Transportation and Distribution
10.10
8.88
9.61
8%
Business Travel
0.79
0.82
0.98
20%
Employee Commuting
2.93
2.70
2.76
2%
Downstream Transportation and Distribution
3.31
3.52
3.73
6%
Use of Sold Products (Amazon Devices)
1.18
1.50
1.43
-5%
End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products (Amazon Devices)
0.04
0.04
0.03
-25%
Amazon’s Carbon Footprint
51.17
60.64
71.54
65.10
64.38
68.25
6%
2022 and 2023 carbon footprints 
recalculated in accordance with 
updated Carbon Methodology 
Amazon Renewable Energy Projects**
Project Location
Number 
of Projects
Total MW
Capacity***
    Australia
10
499
    Austria
1
0.03
    Belgium
1
1
    Brazil
2
171
    Canada
4
875
    China
4
450
    Czech Republic
1
4
    Finland
11
772
    France
8
41
    Germany
9
681
    Greece
8
657
    India
53
1,326
    Indonesia
1
355
    Ireland
4
310
    Italy
40
536
    Japan
25
211
    Netherlands
1
380
    New Zealand
1
51
    Poland
4
142
    Portugal
1
219
    Saudi Arabia
1
2
    Singapore
2
76
    South Africa
2
28
    South Korea
1
60
    Spain
94
3,780
    Sweden
5
787
    United Arab Emirates
2
3
    United Kingdom
44
964
    United States
281
20,104
Total
621
33,485
*Scope 2 and 3 carbon emissions are calculated using a market-based method.	 **This table includes both on-site solar and contracted off-site utility-scale wind and solar projects, which are in various stages of development and construction. Of the projects included in the table, 124 were announced 
in January 2025. AWS aims to procure renewable electricity in the same grids where it consumes electricity. When AWS determines this is not feasible, AWS may procure renewable energy attributes in other locations.  ***Total annual expected MW capacity when operational.
51
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Data Tables
Priority Topics Assessment
Endnotes
Assurance Statements
Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements
Materials and Agricultural Commodities Sourcing
No Deforestation 
To support the elimination of deforestation associated with raw materials and ingredients within our food and consumables Private Brands supply chains, Amazon has made commitments for the use of palm oil, paper and paper packaging, beef, soy, cocoa, coffee, and tea. 
Commodity or Material
Goal or Ambition
2023 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition)
2024 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition)
Palm Oil
Source palm oil and derivatives in Amazon Private Brands food  
and consumable products and palm oil in 365 by Whole Foods 
Market food products from sources certified to the RSPO supply 
chain standard.
In an effort to achieve this target, Amazon (including Whole Foods Market) became a member of the RSPO 
in February 2024 to demonstrate our strong commitment to source sustainably certified palm oil for our 
Private Brands products.
100%
Whole Foods Market
97%
Amazon Private Brands  
North America
100%
Amazon Private Brands Europe
Paper Products and  
Paper PackagingA
Source Private Brands paper products that are either recycled 
or certified to Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Sustainable 
Forestry Initiative (SFI), or Programme for the Endorsement of 
Forest Certification (PEFC) standards.
365 by Whole Foods  
Market-branded products
Amazon Private Brands  
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe
365 by Whole Foods  
Market-branded products
Amazon Private Brands  
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe
We strive to use sustainably sourced fiber in our grocery and 
consumable Private Brands paper-based primary packaging.
We are working with our suppliers to increase the amount of fiber from responsibly managed forests and/
or recycled materials used in our paper-based primary packaging.
We continue to work with suppliers to increase the amount of fiber from responsibly managed forests and/
or recycled materials used in our paper-based primary packaging.
BeefB
By 2025, source Private Brands beef from regions of low 
deforestation risk or with full supply chain traceability, 
demonstrating the products did not contribute to deforestation.
100%
365 by Whole Foods  
Market-branded products
92% 
 
Amazon Private Brands  
North America
100%
Amazon Private Brands Europe
100%
365 by Whole Foods  
Market-branded products
91%
Amazon Private Brands  
North America
100%
Amazon Private Brands Europe
SoyC
Conduct a risk assessment of the soy in Private Brands supply  
chains with a third-party consultancy and share more information  
by the end of 2023.
Within Europe, Amazon’s goal is that the soy in Private Brands supply chains will be deforestation-free by 
the end of 2025, with a cut-off date of 2020. 
Within North America, we determined through this assessment that the majority of the soy in our private 
brands animal protein and meat-counter supply chains is domestically sourced and is thus unlikely to pose 
a deforestation risk.
In 2024, 6% of soy in our European private brand supply chains was verified Deforestation- and 
Conversion-Free (DCF), an increase from 4% in 2023. A further 79% was in transition, with only 15% not 
certified. To support a continued focus on progress, Amazon Fresh Private Brands has joined the Retail Soy  
Group in Europe. 
Within North America, we conducted a risk assessment of the soy in Amazon and Whole Foods Market 
private brands supply chains with a third-party consultancy in 2023. This determined that the majority of 
the soy in our private brands animal protein and meat-counter supply chains is domestically sourced and 
thus is unlikely to pose a deforestation risk.
CocoaD
By 2025, source Private Brands chocolate bars, chocolate chips, 
and baking chocolate/powder products that are certified by 
Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade International, Fair Trade USA, or 
other independently verified third-party certifications, such as  
Cocoa Horizons.
100%
365 by Whole Foods  
Market-branded products
53%
Amazon Private Brands  
North America
100%
Amazon Private Brands Europe
100%
365 by Whole Foods  
Market-branded products
70%
Amazon Private Brands  
North America
100%
Amazon Private Brands Europe
CoffeeE
By 2025, source Private Brands packaged bean, ground, instant, 
and liquid coffee products that are Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade 
International, or Fair Trade USA certified.
365 by Whole Foods Market-
branded and Whole Foods 
Market-branded products
Amazon Private Brands  
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe
365 by Whole Foods Market-
branded and Whole Foods 
Market-branded products
Amazon Private Brands  
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe
TeaF
By 2025, source Private Brands bagged tea products based on the 
tea leaf (camellia sinensis) certified by Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade 
International, or Fair Trade USA.
100%
365 by Whole Foods  
Market-branded products
18
Amazon Private Brands  
North America
Amazon Private Brands  
Europe did not have 
tea products in 2023.
100%
365 by Whole Foods Market-
branded products
Amazon Private Brands  
North America
Amazon Private Brands 
in Europe did not have 
tea products in 2024.
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
95%
70%
53%
98%
98%
97%
97%
18%
100%
100%
100%
100%
75%
92%
52
Sustainable Seafood and Animal Welfare
Commodity or Material
Goal or Ambition
2023 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition)
2024 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition)
Seafood
Source Responsibly Farmed or sustainable wild-caught fresh  
and frozen seafood to Whole Foods Market’s  
Seafood Quality Standards .G
Whole Foods Market
Amazon Private Brands 
North America
Data for Amazon Private Brands 
in Europe was being verified in 
2023.
Whole Foods Market
Amazon Private Brands 
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe
Source Amazon Private Brands seafood products that have a 
third-party sustainability certification or are actively working toward 
certification or engaged in a fishery improvement project (FIP).H
Eggs
Source shell and liquid egg products to a cage-free or higher animal 
welfare standard.
Products sold in Whole Foods 
Market dairy cases, own 
kitchens, and bakeries in the 
U.S. meet Whole Foods Market’s 
Animal Welfare Standards for 
Laying Hens .
Amazon Private Brands and 
national brands shell and liquid 
egg selections sold in North 
America are cage-free.
Amazon Private Brands shell 
eggs sold in Europe are free-
range or barn-raised.
Products sold in Whole Foods 
Market dairy cases, own 
kitchens, and bakeries in the 
U.S. meet Whole Foods Market’s 
Animal Welfare Standards for 
Laying Hens.
Amazon Private Brands and 
national brands shell and liquid 
egg selections sold by Amazon 
Fresh in North America are  
cage-free.
Amazon Private Brands shell 
eggs sold in Europe are 
free-range or barn-raised.
Pork
Source fresh pork sold in the Whole Foods Market meat department 
in the U.S. and Canada that is crate-free and certified by the Global 
Animal Partnership.
Whole Foods Market
Whole Foods Market
Our medium-term milestone is to source 100% of our private         
label fresh pork from group housing or crate-free systems                  
by the end of 2027.
As of the end of 2024, 22% of the pork we source comes from group housing or crate-free systems.  
Please see Amazon Fresh’s Animal Welfare Position 
 for more details.
All fresh pork sausages, bacon and ribs sourced for our “by Amazon“ 
private brand in the UK are Red Tractor Certified and meet the 
requirements of either the (1) British Meat Processors Association, 
Pork scheme, or (2) Irish Food Board, Bord Bia. Additionally, we only 
use certified welfare standards for the Spanish and Italian pork in our 
private brand packaged deli meats.
Amazon Private Brands Europe
Amazon Private Brands Europe
Other Animal  
Proteins
Source all fresh beef, pork, chicken, turkey (excluding kosher turkey), 
and lamb sold in the meat department to Whole Foods Market’s 
Animal Welfare Standards .
Whole Foods Market
Whole Foods Market
Sourcing animal protein products within Amazon Private Brands 
in North America and Europe to the following requirements 
under our animal welfare policy: (1) Suppliers must comply with 
relevant legislation and regulations, as a foundational requirement, 
(2) suppliers must ensure that all animals raised and slaughtered 
are subject to a credible industry animal care assurance program 
or third-party animal welfare certification, (3) suppliers must be able 
to trace animal protein private brand products sourced by Amazon 
back to either, in order of preference, the farm, the co-op/processor, 
or to the slaughter plant, (4) suppliers must have a formal policy to 
address noncompliance with a relevant industry animal care assurance 
program or third-party animal welfare certification, and any 
noncompliance or instance of animal cruelty, neglect, or abuse must 
be reported to Amazon.
We are working with key animal protein suppliers to confirm they meet our existing animal welfare 
policy. We are actively enhancing our commitment to animal welfare for our private brands to build upon 
our established supplier requirements and plan to share key updates in 2025.
We have enhanced our commitment to animal welfare for Amazon Fresh private brands. Please see Amazon 
Fresh’s Animal Welfare Position 
 for more details.
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Data Tables
Priority Topics Assessment
Endnotes
Assurance Statements
Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements
Materials and Agricultural Commodities Sourcing (continued)
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
53
Apparel
Commodity or Material
Goal or Ambition
2023 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition)
2024 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition)
Cotton
Source all cotton for Amazon Private Brands apparel products from more 
sustainable sources, which we define as being sourced from recycled 
materials, from farms certified as producing organic cotton, or through 
the Better Cotton Initiative, or through the U.S. Cotton Trust Protocol.
Amazon Private Brands apparel products
Amazon Private Brands apparel products
Leather
Source leather apparel and shoe products from more sustainable 
sources, which we define as being sourced from tanneries that meet 
the Leather Working Group’s Bronze level or higher.
Amazon did not source any Private Brands apparel or shoes made from leather in 2023.
Amazon Private Brands apparel or shoes
Amazon Private Brands apparel or shoes
Manufactured  
Cellulosic Fibers
Source manufactured cellulosic fibers used in Amazon Private Brands 
apparel products—including rayon, viscose, lyocell, and modal—
from more sustainable sources. We use the nonprofit Canopy’s tools 
and reports to help avoid fibers sourced from endangered forests, 
endangered species’ habitats, or other controversial sources. 
Amazon Private Brands apparel products
Amazon Private Brands apparel products
Recycled Fabrics
Increase the use of recycled fabrics in Amazon Private Brands apparel 
products, including moving from conventional to recycled polyester 
and launching products made from innovative recycled fibers.
Polyester in Amazon Private Brands apparel is recycled polyester.
Polyester in Amazon Private Brands apparel products is recycled polyester.
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Data Tables
Priority Topics Assessment
Endnotes
Assurance Statements
Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements
Materials and Agricultural Commodities Sourcing (continued)
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
16%
15%
A Whole Foods Market sells only recycled materials or FSC-certified products. 
Scope includes Amazon Private Brands paper towel, toilet paper, facial tissue, 
baking paper, coffee filter, paper dishware, and napkin products.
B Scope covers Whole Foods Market Private Brands beef and meat sold in the 
meat department; fresh or frozen beef in Amazon Private Brands in North 
America and Europe.
C Scope covers Amazon and Whole Foods Market Private Brands and meat 
department in North America, including Tiers 2 and 3 of the Consumer Goods 
Forum Soy Ladder Framework. In Europe, the scope covers soy in Tiers 1–4. A 
cut-off date of 2020 means that the soy has not been sourced from land that 
has been subject to deforestation since the end of 2020.
D For Whole Foods Market, only Fair Trade USA is accepted.
E Scope for Amazon North America and Europe excludes extracts and flavorings.
F Scope excludes matcha, mixes, and “ready-to-drink” beverages.
G Scope includes all products in Whole Foods Market’s seafood department, 
including frozen and breaded options, appetizers, smoked seafood, and 
seafood dips. Whole Foods Market sells only wild-caught seafood from 
fisheries that are certified sustainable by the Marine Stewardship Council 
(MSC) or rated Green or Yellow by the Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood 
Watch program. All our farmed seafood is Responsibly Farmed seafood. 
Canned tuna in grocery and in Whole Foods Market’s own kitchens is 
traceable to the boats and must be sourced from fisheries that are using  
one-by-one catch methods and certified sustainable by the MSC or rated 
Green or Yellow by the Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch program.
H Scope includes Amazon Private Brands products sold in North America 
and Europe in which seafood comprises more than 5% of the product or is 
in the top three ingredients. Excludes sauces, marinades, and pet food. The 
following certifications or programs are accepted for wild-caught seafood: 
Marine Stewardship Council; rated Green or Yellow by the Monterey Bay 
Aquarium Seafood Watch program; or rated A, B, or C in an FIP. The following 
are accepted for farmed seafood: Aquaculture Stewardship Council; European 
organic or Naturland organic; Best Aquaculture Practices ≥ 2-star; or 
GLOBALG.A.P.
54
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Data Tables
Priority Topics Assessment
Endnotes
Assurance Statements
Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements
Priority 
Topics 
Assessment
Identifying Our Priorities
Amazon’s business spans many industries, including but 
not limited to e-commerce, cloud computing, consumer 
goods, entertainment, and logistics. We operate globally 
and employ more than 1.5 million full- and part-time 
employees worldwide. This broad scope means that we 
must consider how a wide range of topics relate to  
our business. 
In 2024, we conducted a comprehensive topic assessment 
to inform the contents of this report. We identified the 
topics that we believe are most relevant to our business 
and stakeholders globally as of 2024, most of which are 
consistent with past analyses and with the topics covered 
in our past reports.
Our Process
Our assessment process was guided by leading 
reporting frameworks, including the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI), and consisted of the 
following phases:
Identify Topics
Through stakeholder research and industry analysis, we 
identified topics that could be relevant to Amazon and 
our stakeholders. We started with an long list of topics, 
which we consolidated into a smaller subset of more 
comprehensive topic groupings.
Engage with Stakeholders
We mapped key internal and external stakeholder 
groups across our value chain. We gathered their input 
through direct interviews, surveys, and analysis of written 
materials that reflect stakeholder perspectives.
Assess Inputs
We analyzed stakeholder inputs using a structured scoring 
framework. We evaluated each input based on the topics 
discussed by the source and the level of detail provided. 
For each source of input, we assigned a score for all topics 
discussed or referenced.
Prioritize Topics
We computed the total scores for each topic based on all 
stakeholder inputs and ranked topics by their total score. 
Higher-scoring topics ranked among our higher priorities. 
We shared these findings with key internal stakeholders 
and leaders.
Our Priority Topics
The following list represents our priority topics, many of 
which are examined in dedicated sections of this report.
We view many of these topics as interconnected and 
recognize that making progress in one area can often help 
solve for challenges in another. The following topics are 
listed in alphabetical order.
•	 Biodiversity
•	 Business Ethics
•	 Communities
•	 Corporate Governance
•	 Customer Experience and Satisfaction
•	 Data Privacy and Security
•	 Emerging Technology
•	 Employee Attraction, Retention, and Development
•	 Inclusive Experiences
•	 Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Energy, and Climate Change
•	 Human Rights
•	 Labor Rights
•	 Materials, Waste, and Circularity
•	 Policy and Advocacy
•	 Product Safety and Quality
•	 Responsible Marketing and Advertising
•	 Water
•	 Workplace Health and Safety
We also recognize there are topics beyond these priorities 
that may be relevant to certain aspects of our business 
or to certain stakeholders. Amazon has programs and 
policies in place covering many other topics. While we 
may reference aspects of additional topics throughout 
this report, information about other topics can generally 
be found on our corporate website  and/or our 
sustainability website .
Monitoring Our Priorities
We will continue to monitor the relevance of these topics 
and engage with stakeholders on an ongoing basis. We 
will conduct updates or additional assessments as we see 
changes to our priorities over time.
55
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Data Tables
Priority Topics Assessment
Endnotes
Assurance Statements
Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements
Endnotes
1.	
Supply chains focus on sourcing materials and delivering goods to 
customers. Value chains include upstream supply chain as well as 
downstream delivery to customers, customer use of products, and  
end-of-life of products.
2.	
Carbon-free energy includes existing renewable energy technologies, 
such as wind and solar farms and on-site rooftop solar systems, as well 
as other sources that generate carbon-free energy, such as nuclear 
reactors, hydroelectric, and geothermal. Our investments also include 
site energy contracts and green tariffs with local utilities that result in 
new wind and solar projects being added to the grid.
3.	
As detailed in our Renewable Energy Methodology , to calculate the 
percentage of renewable energy matched by the electricity consumed by 
our global operations, we evaluate both the amount of renewable energy 
from Amazon’s projects and the renewable energy in the grid. This total 
renewable energy is then compared to Amazon’s total energy use.
4.	
In our 2022 and 2023 Reports, we stated this goal had been met 
with contracted energy capacity. In 2024, the contracted energy 
became operational.
5.	
Electric delivery vans include Rivian and vans from other electric vehicle 
manufacturers.
6.	
Electric delivery vehicles include four-wheel (electric delivery vans), 
three-wheel, two-wheel, and e-mopeds.
7.	
Amazon’s carbon footprint is reported in metric tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalent (MTCO2e), where each metric ton of CO2 emissions represents 
the same global warming potential as one metric ton of another 
greenhouse gas. Learn more in our Carbon Methodology .
8.	
Carbon intensity measures emissions growth against the growth of the 
business. Carbon intensity at Amazon is measured in grams of CO2e per 
dollar of gross merchandise sales (g CO2e/$GMS).
9.	
We regularly refine our carbon measurement approach to improve 
accuracy. In 2024, we updated our emissions data sources, which led us 
to recalculate our 2022 and 2023 figures. While we did not apply these 
new methods to 2021 and earlier data, year-over-year comparisons 
remain possible, though the methodology differs between 2024 and 
2019 carbon intensity calculations.
10.	 A free, publicly available website of previously proprietary information 
that will help other companies make meaningful progress toward  
net-zero carbon emissions.
11.	 PUE measures the energy consumed by a data center to power 
computing equipment, cooling, and other data center infrastructure 
to support operations.
12.	 International Data Corporation, 2H24 Datacenter Trends: Sustainable 
Datacenter Builds and CO2 Emissions 
 Doc # US51911924, January 
2025. A 1.0 PUE is a theoretical number, implying that all the energy 
consumed by a data center is being used to power computing 
equipment and that none is wasted on cooling or other infrastructure. 
Learn more in our Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) Methodology 
13.	 The embodied carbon calculation uses the Carbon Leadership Forum’s 
(CLF) 2021 baseline. CLF baselines represent an estimate of 
industry-average GHG emissions for construction materials 
manufactured in North America.
14.	 Renewable natural gas (RNG) is created by decomposing organic waste 
materials anaerobically (without oxygen).
15.	 World Steel in Figures .
16.	 Natural pozzolans are cement clinker substitutes that enable cement to 
be produced at a lower temperature, creating fewer emissions.
17.	 CarbonCure is a commercialized portfolio of carbon removal 
technologies that consume carbon dioxide (CO2) in concrete during 
production, permanently sequestering CO2 and enabling the reduction 
of cement content in mixes without impacting concrete performance.
18.	 According to BloombergNEF.
19.	 United Nations Environment Programme, Methane emissions are driving 
climate change .
20.	 WEF Net Zero Industry Tracker 2024 .
21.	 Cement and concrete constitute approximately 8% of all global 
emissions, and demand is expected to grow significantly by 2050.
22.	 Amazon, Microsoft, Mundy’s, Ryan Companies, Prologis, Trammell Crow 
(CBRE), Deloitte, AECOM, and CarbonCure.
23.	 Carbon credits are certificates that are purchased to offset the emissions 
of a certain amount of CO2 or other GHGs.
24.	 IPCC Cross-Chapter Paper 7: Tropical Forests .
25.	 Goal scope covers food that is considered inventory. It is measured with 
a food waste intensity metric that calculates the amount 
of food waste generated as a percentage of total food handled 
within Amazon.
26.	 Amazon’s landfill diversion rate is a measure of both the waste we 
successfully divert to recycling and what we send to incineration with 
energy recovery.
27.	 United Nations Climate Change, Food loss and waste .
28.	 Global includes the following regions and countries: North America (U.S. 
and Canada), Europe (Europe and UK), and Rest of World (Australia, 
Brazil, Egypt, India, Japan, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa 
and the United Arab Emirates).
29.	 Ships in Product Packaging was formerly called Ships in Own Container.
30.	 BOTTLE: Bio-Optimized Technologies to keep Thermoplastics out of 
Landfills and the Environment .
31.	 Being water positive means AWS will return more water to communities 
and the environment than its direct operations use. AWS measures 
progress annually against this goal by adding together reused water and 
water from replenishment projects and dividing that number by total 
water withdrawal minus water from sustainable sources. As we improve 
water efficiency, we also reduce how much incoming water we use.
32.	 WWF, Living Planet Report .
33.	 The concept of salience uses the lens of risk to people, not to the 
business, as the starting point, while recognizing that where risks 
to people’s human rights are greatest, there is often strong convergence 
with risks to the business. UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework .
34.	 We review our Supply Chain Standards at least every three years, 
working with external stakeholders to align our requirements with 
current best practices and regulatory standards. Please refer to our most 
recent update as mentioned in our 2022 Sustainability Report .
35.	 Supplier audits are conducted for businesses manufacturing 
Amazon-branded products, products under Amazon’s patent or 
trademark, third-party labor, service, and not-for-resale goods providers 
in our logistics, warehousing, and construction supply chain.
36.	 Manufacturing sites that are covered by Better Work.
37.	 Includes data for businesses manufacturing Amazon-branded products, 
products under Amazon’s patent or trademark, third-party labor, service, 
and not-for-resale goods providers in our logistics, warehousing, and 
construction supply chain.
38.	 Data for 2022 and 2023 represents findings from audits of 
Amazon-branded product suppliers only. 2024 data has an expanded 
scope that includes both Amazon-branded product suppliers and third-
party labor, service, and not-for-resale goods providers in our logistics, 
warehousing, and construction supply chain.
39.	 This 2024 data includes third-party labor, service, and not-for-resale 
goods providers in our logistics, warehousing, and construction supply 
chain, which was not included in 2023 and 2022.
40.	 Addressed is defined as assessed, investigated, and resolved, 
where applicable.
41.	 Whole Foods Market refers to Whole Foods Market in the U.S., unless 
stated otherwise.
42.	 A switch is defined as a customer who purchases a product recognized 
by certifications in the Climate Pledge Friendly program and has 
purchased only products not recognized by Climate Pledge Friendly 
within the past two years in the same product category.
43.	 UL’s Zero Waste to Landfill methodology defines Silver-level sites as 
those diverting 90%–94%, Gold-level sites as those diverting 95%–99%, 
and Platinum-level sites as those diverting 100% of waste, according to 
the UL 2799 standard.
44.	 Based on EU and U.S. data, not a guarantee of future performance. 
Amazon 2024 Commissioned study with a PhD from USC Marshall 
School of Business .
45.	 Reduced-time employees are those who work 30 hours per week, as 
defined by the threshold of requiring employees to provide health 
insurance for workers who work 30 hours per week or more under 
U.S. law.
46.	 Employees in Ireland have access to integrated private health insurance 
and coverage, which includes EAP and wellness services.
47.	 In the General Warehousing and Storage industry, Amazon benchmarks 
itself against the industry average for employers with >1,000 employees.
48.	 In the Courier and Express Delivery Services industry, Amazon 
benchmarks itself against the industry average for employers with  
250–999 employees.
49.	 All these numbers and other comparisons are based on the rates 
Amazon has reported to applicable regulators or are otherwise derived 
from the same tracking systems used for that reporting.
50.	 Global operations in reference to health and safety rates means 
fulfillment (Amazon Robotics sortable, traditional non-sort, in-bound 
cross dock), transportation (sort center, delivery station, and air), and 
Amazon Robotics operations facilities.
51.	 According to the USDA, 1.2 pounds is the equivalent to one meal. $1 
helps to provide at least 10 meals secured by Feeding America on behalf 
of local partner food banks.
52.	 We partnered with a third-party provider, Supplier.io, to manage the 
impact on communities through our suppliers’ Tier 1 spend, with metrics 
that report Tier 2 outcomes.
53.	 We partnered with a third-party provider, Proximo, to manage the 
impact on communities through Amazon’s SDI Tier 1 spend, with metrics 
that report economic impact outcomes.
On the cover
Image 1: Our Euclid, Ohio, fulfillment center is the first in the U.S. to 
replace plastic delivery packaging with paper packaging solutions that  
are curbside recyclable.
Image 2: In India, we collaborated with NeoMotion to expand our delivery 
fleet by incorporating electric wheelchairs, supporting associates who use 
wheelchairs to deliver packages.
Image 3: In Madison County, Ohio, we’ve enabled one of the first 
utility-scale solar projects in the U.S. that is intentionally integrating forage 
crop production—crops used as feedstock—between rows of solar panels.
56
Overview
Progress
Appendix
Data Tables
Priority Topics Assessment
Endnotes
Assurance Statements
Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements
Assurance Statements
Please see our 2024 assurance statements at the links below:
Amazon Scopes 
1 and 2 Assurance
Download 
Amazon Scope 3 
Assurance 
Download 
Amazon Renewable 
Energy Assurance 
Download 
Devices Renewable 
Energy Assurance
Download 
Amazon Plastic  
Packaging Assurance
Download 
Disclaimer and 
Forward-Looking 
Statements
The information and opinions contained in this report 
are provided as of the date of this report and are subject 
to change without notice. Amazon does not undertake 
to update or revise any such statements. This report 
represents current Amazon policy and intent and is 
not intended to create legal rights or obligations. This 
report may contain, or incorporate by reference, public 
information not separately reviewed, approved, or 
endorsed by Amazon, and no representation, warranty, 
or undertaking is made by Amazon as to the accuracy, 
reasonableness, or completeness of such information. 
Inclusion of information in this report may be based on 
a variety of standards, frameworks, and considerations 
and is not an indication that the subject or information 
is material to Amazon’s business, strategy, outlook, 
operating results, or financial condition or to its 
stakeholders, nor material as it relates to Amazon’s impact 
on other parties or sustainability matters. This report was 
originally drafted in English and then translated into other 
languages. The English version is the authoritative version.
This report includes forward-looking statements within 
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform 
Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of 
historical or current facts, including statements regarding 
our plans, initiatives, projections, goals, commitments, 
expectations, or prospects, are forward-looking. These 
forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain 
and difficult to predict. We use words such as aim, 
anticipate, believe, commit, drive, estimate, ensure, 
expect, goal, intend, may, mission, plan, project, seek, 
strategy, strive, target, will, or similar expressions to 
identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking 
statements reflect management’s current expectations 
and inherently involve risks and uncertainties. Actual 
results and outcomes could differ materially for a variety 
of reasons, including, among others, assumptions not 
being realized, changing climate-related conditions and 
weather events, scientific or technological developments, 
evolving sustainability strategies, changes in carbon 
markets, evolving government regulations or policies, our 
expansion into new products, services, technologies, and 
geographic regions, or other changes in circumstances, as 
well as the factors set forth in the “Risk Factors” section 
of Amazon’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K 
and subsequent filings. The standards of measurement 
and performance contained in the report are developing 
and based on assumptions, and no assurance can be given 
that any plan, initiative, projection, goal, commitment, 
expectation, or prospect set forth in this report can or will 
be achieved.
57
Published July 2025 | sustainability.aboutamazon.com
