INSIGHT 
TO IMPACT
E S G  R E P O R T  |  2 0 2 4 - 2 5
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
02  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Click here to access the ESG Data Book
Environment
13  Performance on 
Environmental Goals
14  Climate Change
26  Water
29  Waste
Insight to Impact
03	 Introduction
04	 Message from the CFO
05	 Corporate overview
06	 Approach to reporting
08	 ESG highlights
09	 Our ESG priorities
33  Performance on  
Social Goals
34  Enabling Digital Talent  
at Scale
38  Tech for Good
41  Nurturing Workplace 
Inclusivity
45  Energizing Local 
Communities
52  Facilitating Employee 
Wellness and Experience
Social
60  Performance on 
Governance Goals
61  Corporate Governance
69  Data Privacy
73  Information 
Management
Governance
INSIDE THIS REPORT
How to navigate the report 
We bring you the Infosys ESG Report 2024-25 – an interactive PDF that helps 
you access information easily, to go to another page, section or website. The ESG 
disclosures consist of the ESG Report 2024-2025 and the ESG Data Book 2024-25
Document controls 
The bold text on the navigation bar indicates the section you are currently in. 
You can also go to specific chapters from the Contents page. Some of the links 
embedded in the content will take you to the Infosys Integrated Annual Report, ESG 
Data Book, the Corporate Responsibility microsite, and the Foundation websites.
Download printable PDF of 
Infosys ESG Report 2024-25
A4
Print optimized
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
03  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
As the climate crisis escalates, the call for institutions to act is no longer a nudge 
- it is a demand. Infosys’ journey towards sustainability began in the early 2000s. 
Over the years, our efforts have created real impact across our value chain, 
clients, and communities.
Today, there is no doubt that we are in the midst of a global phenomenon, 
moving towards an AI-first future, and the stakes have never been higher. 
For us, this isn’t just about keeping pace. It is about building AI infrastructure 
and data strategies that are fair, transparent, and deeply responsible. We are 
leveraging these capabilities not only to advance our own sustainability goals, 
but to create enterprise-scale value for our clients in ways that are future-ready 
and impact-driven.
Sustaining the momentum of carbon 
neutrality for six years, our next frontier is 
becoming climate positive in 2030, and we are 
engineering the path with precision. Backed 
by our net zero commitment, we are using 
smart systems to forecast risks, chart the way 
forward, and take decisive action. In fiscal 
2025, at the halfway mark, we share some of 
these journeys with you in this ESG report, 
proof of what is possible when purpose meets 
action, as we continue to move ahead, mining 
insights to deliver impact.
Introduction
Message from the CFO
Corporate Overview
Approach to Reporting
ESG Highlights
Our ESG Priorities
Introduction
We achieved carbon 
neutrality in 2020. 
Our next frontier is 
to become climate 
positive in 2030, 
engineering the path 
with precision.
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
04  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
04  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
Message from the CFO
Dear stakeholder, 
We live and work in the era of Artificial Intelligence. Extreme automation, intensely data-driven decisions, personalization made possible by 
deep analytics, and intelligent systems mark our experiences at work and outside. Naturally, this also brings with it the need to consider the 
complexities of data privacy, digital equity, and the ethics of AI.  The need of the hour is to harness the opportunity to progress but to do so while 
being mindful of ESG considerations. With this in mind, we have strengthened our ESG strategy to be more intentional, forward-looking, and 
purposeful. We undertook a refresh of our ESG Vision 2030 and ambitions thereof to further sharpen our focus. Our purpose – “To amplify human 
potential and create the next opportunity for people, businesses, and communities” – continues to be our guiding light. A future-ready ESG 
roadmap is the result, designed to lead responsibly in an increasingly self-running world.
Our organization's core ESG tenets were actively integrated into Infosys’ operations and decision-making processes throughout fiscal 2025. This 
has been widely recognized and applauded.
For the sixth consecutive year, we are carbon neutral across our global operations, by reducing our energy consumption, increasing our 
renewable energy sourcing, and offsetting our residual emissions through high-quality carbon credits.
We have been recognized as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies, for the fifth year in a row, by Ethisphere.
Infosys also became the first India-headquartered Company to receive Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) approval from EU data protection 
authorities. This was a significant milestone for us, demonstrating our commitment to data privacy and compliance with EU regulations.
We have reached 13.3 million people with digital skills, including employees, clients’ workforce, students, teachers, and communities. 
175,000 patients have been onboarded to SightConnect, making eye care more accessible to all.
You will see more details as you join us in reviewing this ESG Report. As always, we invite your feedback.
Jayesh Sanghrajka
Chief Financial Officer
Bengaluru 
May 31, 2025	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Message from the CFO
Corporate Overview
Approach to Reporting
ESG Highlights
Our ESG Priorities
Introduction
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
05  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Corporate Overview
Revenue by geography
Infosys began its operations in a small apartment office in Pune, India, in 1981.  
Today, we have offices across six continents.
For details of our global locations, visit
www.infosys.com/investors/reports-filings/documents/global-presence2025.pdf
REGIONS
2024-25
North America
57.9%
Europe
29.8%
Rest of the World
9.2%
India
3.1%
59 
No. of countries
292
No. of offices
Argentina 
Brazil
USA
Costa Rica
Canada
Chile
Peru
Mexico 
Puerto Rico
Australia 
New Zealand
China
Saudi Arabia
UAE
Oman
Qatar
Turkey
Israel
India
South Africa
Mauritius 
Armenia
Bulgaria
Belgium
Luxembourg
Ireland
UK
Guernsey
Netherlands
Germany
France
Spain
Portugal 
Liechtenstein
Hungary
Slovakia
Switzerland
Serbia
Italy
Malta
Denmark
Finland
Sweden
Hong Kong 
Thailand
Taiwan 
Philippines
Malaysia
Singapore 
Japan
South Korea 
Austria
Czech Republic
Poland 
Lithuania
Latvia
Croatia
Romania
Norway
Message from the CFO
Corporate Overview
Approach to Reporting
ESG Highlights
Our ESG Priorities
Introduction
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
06  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Our solutions are classified as digital and core
Digital
Infosys Cobalt is a set of services, solutions, and platforms for enterprises to 
accelerate their cloud journey. 
Infosys Topaz is an AI-first offering to accelerate business value for global 
enterprises using generative AI.
Infosys Aster is an AI-amplified marketing suite that delivers engaging brand 
experiences, enhanced marketing efficiency, and accelerated business growth.
Core
Application 
management services
Infrastructure 
management services
Proprietary application 
development services
Traditional enterprise 
application implementation
Independent 
validation solutions
Product engineering 
and management
Support and 
integration services
Business process 
management
Digital accelerators
Infosys Metaverse Foundry eases and fast-tracks enterprises’ exploration 
of the metaverse, including virtual and augmented environments, for their 
customers, workplace, products and operations.
Infosys Center for Emerging Technology Solutions focuses on incubation 
of NextGen services and offerings by identifying and building 
technology capabilities to accelerate innovation.
Center for Emerging
Technology Solutions
Key products and platforms
Message from the CFO
Corporate Overview
Approach to Reporting
ESG Highlights
Our ESG Priorities
Introduction
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
07  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Infosys ESG Report 2024-25
Infosys has stayed true to the vision of the founders – to continue to earn the respect of our stakeholders globally. It is no wonder, therefore, that a holistic appreciation of progress – inclusive of the 
universe of stakeholders from clients to communities, employees, suppliers, investors and the government – has continued to accelerate our collective efforts. This ESG report, together with our other 
publications, reflect our approach, journey, and outcomes.
About this report
This report outlines our progress towards ESG Vision 
2030 and serves as our annual Communication on 
Progress (CoP) to the UN Global Compact. It reflects 
the maturity of our sustainability practices and 
responds to the evolving expectations of our global 
stakeholders across environmental, social, and 
governance areas. Unless specified otherwise, all 
disclosures cover the operations of Infosys Limited 
and its subsidiaries.
Frameworks, guidelines and standards
The disclosures in this Report (including ESG data 
book) are in accordance with the GRI Standards, 
2021 and SASB standards and includes our 
response to the Task Force on Climate Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD).
We have also mapped our contribution to the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Approach to materiality
The universe of our material topics on 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) is 
complex and multi-layered, one that is deeply 
intertwined with the value we seek to create 
through our business for our stakeholders. 
Read more (link to DMA chapter in this report)
Assurance statement
Our ESG disclosures are reviewed and verified 
internally by Corporate Certifications and 
Assessments Team (CCAT). Select non-financial 
sustainability disclosures are assured by Deloitte 
Haskins and Sells LLP. The Independent Assurance 
Statement is available as part of the ESG Data Book. 
(link to ESG databook)
Infosys Integrated 
Annual Report 2024-25
Infosys Foundation 
Report 2024-25
Infosys ESG Microsite
Infosys ESG Vision 2030
Infosys Corporate Social Responsibility  
Microsite
Infosys ESG Data Book 2024-25
INSIGHT 
TO IMPACT
E S G  D ATA  B O O K  | 2 0 2 4 - 2 5
REFRESH 2025
Message from the CFO
Corporate Overview
Approach to Reporting
ESG Highlights
Our ESG Priorities
Introduction
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
08  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
ESG Highlights
Carbon neutral 
6 years in a row
100% 
recycling of 
wastewater
40 lakes
across our campuses, 
holding 430 million 
liters of rainwater 
storage capacity
409
deep injection wells 
with a recharge 
capacity of over 20 
kiloliters
77.7%
of electricity 
for our India 
operations comes 
from renewable 
sources
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
ENVIRONMENT 
CDP Climate 
leadership 
9 years 
in a row
29.7  
million sq.ft. 
of the highest-level 
green certified 
space
98%
of waste diverted 
from landfills
2,72,000+
rural families 
across India 
continue to benefit 
from our carbon 
offset programs
273
suppliers engaged to 
enhance their climate
performance
1,30,000+ 
volunteering hours 
via InfyCares, 
34,000+ employees 
participated across 
21 locations
125 million+
lives impacted 
through Tech for 
Good initiatives
1,75,000
patients onboarded 
to SightConnect, 
making eye care 
more accessible to all 
13.3 million
people reached 
with digital skills, 
including employees, 
clients’ workforce, 
students, teachers, 
and communities
15,200+
fresh graduates
hired globally
9 million+ 
registered users 
on Infosys 
Springboard, 
India
20,000+ 
members across 
11 countries on 
InfyTribes, Infosys' 
employee community 
building platform
39% 
women in the workforce
Global Top 
Employer 2025
in 22 countries for best-
in-class HR practices 
and processes
100+ 
client living labs
823 
patents in the portfolio 
(granted/pending)
1,500+
Infosys Knowledge 
Institute assets
World’s most 
ethical 
Company
recognized by 
Ethisphere, for the 5th 
consecutive year
ISO 42001:2023 
certified for AI management 
systems
ISO 27001:2022 
certified for information 
security management
ISO 14001:2015 
certified for environment 
management
ISO 14068-1:2023 
certified for carbon 
neutrality
ISO 27701:2019 
certified for privacy 
information management
ISO 45001:2018 
certified for occupational 
health & safety management
ISO 22301:2019 
certified for business 
continuity management
ISO 50001:2018 
certified for Energy 
Management System
Binding 
Corporate Rules 
First India-headquartered 
Company to receive approval 
from EU data protection 
authorities
Message from the CFO
Corporate Overview
Approach to Reporting
ESG Highlights
Our ESG Priorities
Introduction
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
09  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Our ESG Priorities
Every view matters
Infosys has a presence across multiple geographies, industries, services and products. The 
universe of our material matters is complex and multi-layered, one that is deeply intertwined 
with the decisions we implement and the value we seek to create through our business. Within 
the domains of E, S and G, we are constantly thinking about issues in an ever-changing and 
dynamic world and preparing for them.
In 2020, we undertook a review of the progress we made over the past decade on our 
sustainability goals and developed the lens further in a more practical and comprehensive 
manner, to broaden our ESG focus and rank our priorities in order of their importance to our 
business and our stakeholders.
Our approach
We determined our most material issues through a data-driven and consultative exercise. Material topics were 
shortlisted and prioritized based on their impact on our stakeholders and our business.
1  World Economic Forum (www.weforum.org/whitepapers/toward-common-metrics-and-consistent-reporting-of-sustainable-
value-creation)
2  Ellen McArthur Foundation (www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org)
Materiality matrix based on GRI framework
The ESG committee of the Board also approves the continued relevance of material matters 
encompassing the views of our stakeholders on an annual basis.
• Climate change
• Tech for good
• Enabling digital talent at scale
• Corporate governance
• Data privacy
• Information management
• Diversity and inclusion
• Employee wellness and experience
• Waste
• Water
• Energizing local communities
Very high
High
Medium
Meidum
Strong
Very strong
Inﬂuence on stakeholders
Impact on sustainable business performance
Stakeholder engagement
We identify and prioritize our stakeholders based on the impact of the Company on the stakeholders and 
the ability of the stakeholder groups to influence the functioning of the Company. As part of the materiality 
assessment, we have identified six key stakeholder group: Inverstors / shareholders, clients, employees and 
sub-contractors, suppliers / partners, government / regulators, and the community.
•  Belief audits with the Management to 
understand priorities
•  Employee engagement surveys, focus 
group discussions and Interactions
•  Investor priorities through investor 
surveys
•  Global indices reporting and 
assessment frameworks, thought 
papers1, and partnerships with 
globalorganization2
•  Peer benchmarking in the IT industry
•  Media and public opinion, using AI 
tools for insights
•  Regulatory landscape 
in jurisdictions 
relevant for Infosys
•  Broader stakeholder 
consultations
•  Specific ESG impact 
areas in geographical 
and service line 
contexts in relation to 
mega trends
•  Benchmarking 
against best 
practices 
among peers 
in IT and other 
industries
External 
stakeholder 
consultations, 
global frameworks, 
mega trends, and 
peer benchmarking
Internal stakeholder 
alignment
Message from the CFO
Corporate Overview
Approach to Reporting
ESG Highlights
Our ESG Priorities
Introduction
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
10  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Value
chain
identification
Determine
ESG
matters
Identify
impacts,
risks and
opportunities
Stakeholder
engagement
Determine
impact and
financial
materiality
Finalize
material
matters and
reporting
obligations
ESG Vision 2030 Refresh
Being the mid-point in our journey to realize our 
ESG Vision 2030, 2025 was a good time to reflect 
on our progress while reviewing our material 
topics for their continued relevance to growing 
stakeholder expectations. This detailed exercise 
resulted in crafting our roadmap towards a climate 
positive future where we envisage being net zero 
in 2030 while staying true to our commitment to 
be carbon neutral every year. Our digital skilling 
efforts are now focused on enabling skilling for 
Our approach
We adopted a research-backed consultative approach grounded in analytics. Material ESG matters were seeded 
and ranked based on criteria defined for impact materiality – the positive and negative ESG-related impacts 
connected to the business – and financial materiality – the ESG-related financial risks and opportunities.
1. Value chain identification 
Our value chain encompasses the activities, 
resources and relationships used and relied on 
to deliver our services. Identifying and mapping 
Infosys’ value chain was the foundation in the 
double materiality assessment process. This 
helped us identify where the most significant 
ESG IROs occur in our operations, and across 
our upstream and downstream value chain. Our 
key upstream partners include IT & services and 
manpower suppliers, while our customers are the 
key downstream partners.   
2. Determine ESG matters 
We considered all ESRS-relevant sustainability 
topics, sub-topics, and sub-sub-topics. Further, 
we identified relevant ESG matters across our 
value chain through a comprehensive review of 
our existing ESG priorities, our Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) system, key priorities for 
stakeholders, and other evolving priorities in 
the sector. 
3. Identify impacts, risks and opportunities 
Built on the list of previously identified ESG 
matters material to Infosys, we developed a list 
of IROs, to be further used as the base for the 
double materiality assessment. To ensure we 
fully integrated the financial and risk perspective, 
we considered the enterprise-wide risk register 
results as part of the process. Further, we 
reviewed several industry reports as well as 
academic research papers. 
4. Stakeholder engagement 
In carrying out the double materiality 
assessment, engagement with stakeholders 
both internal as well as external has helped 
us prioritize the IROs. We have identified and 
jobs while we amplify communities through Tech 
for Good  initiatives, job creation, and CSR efforts 
including employee volunteering, healthcare 
interventions, and women’s empowerment. We will 
nurture workplace inclusivity while aiming to be the 
employer of choice in the regions we operate. Our 
commitment to responsible governance remains 
steadfast as we shape thinking in data privacy and 
information management and lead best practice. 
Our refreshed ESG Vision 2030 ambitions came into 
effect starting April 1, 2025.
prioritized our stakeholders based on those 
who might be impacted by our activities and 
those who could influence our functioning. 
As part of the materiality assessment, we have 
identified six key stakeholders: employees and 
sub-contractors, clients, investor/shareholders, 
suppliers/partners, government/regulators, 
and communities. Due to the diverse nature 
of the stakeholder groups, we use different 
channels of consultation and engagement 
regarding a range of topics, including ESG. For 
the double materiality assessment, we refined 
our list of identified IROs through consultations 
with internal stakeholders, including the ESG 
Ambition owners and the ESG Council. 
5. Determine impact and financial 
materiality 
We used an average scoring approach, and 
the impacts were assessed based on their 
scale, scope, irremediability (in the case of 
negative impacts) and likelihood; and risks 
and opportunities on their magnitude and 
likelihood. The likelihood was calculated only 
for material IROs. 
 
Impact materiality score: The procedure to 
establish impact materiality was principally aligned 
with the European Financial Reporting Advisory 
Group’s (EFRAG) implementation guideline, 
assessing scale, scope and irremediability. For 
scale, we assessed the size of the impact on the 
environment and people; for scope, its reach 
or geographical span, and, where applicable, 
irremediability scores considered efforts that might 
be needed to remediate our negative impacts. 
 
Financial materiality score: The risks and 
opportunities were assessed based on their 
Double Materiality Assessment
This year, we undertook a double materiality assessment in advance of our reporting commitment to the 
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD). We leveraged our Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI)-based 
material topics to identify material sustainability-related matters using the double materiality framework guided 
by recommendations of the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG), marking a key milestone 
in the advancement of our readiness towards compliance with EU CSRD. The double materialty assessment 
identified ESG matters that are material to Infosys based on potential and actual Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities 
(IROs). We will continue to monitor the directive and revisit our double materiality assessment to ensure it reflects 
evolving regulatory requirements as well as changes to our business. This exercise has been reviewed and 
approved by the Board.
Message from the CFO
Corporate Overview
Approach to Reporting
ESG Highlights
Our ESG Priorities
Introduction
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
11  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
likelihood of occurrence and the potential 
magnitude of their financial effects in the 
short-,medium- and long-term. The likelihood 
was assessed on the probability of the risk or 
opportunity materializing (e.g., almost certain, 
likely, possible, unlikely), while magnitude was 
based on the significance of the financial effect 
if this risk or opportunity were to materialize 
(e.g., above or below the threshold). The 
procedure to determine financial materiality was 
fundamentally aligned with Infosys’ enterprise 
risk management framework. 
 
Threshold was selected using a qualitative and 
quantitative method, based on the topic’s alignment 
with Infosys’ strategy and risk approach, continuity 
with previous materiality assessments, and relevance 
of the information to the value chain partners.
Outcomes
The double materiality assessment principally endorsed our previously identified ESG priorities.
Materiality matrix based on DMA
Impact materiality
Climate change
Corporate governance
Waste
Water
Information
management
Enabling digital
talent at scale
Employee
wellness and
experience
Nurturing
workplace
inclusivity
Data privacy
Amplifying
communities
Financial materiality
Very high
High
Medium
6. Finalize material matters and reporting 
obligations 
The preliminary results of IRO scores were 
aggregated, deliberated, and validated at 
workshops with ESG Ambition leaders at Infosys 
and by the ESG Council. The workshops were 
conducted to include a top-down perspective 
and prevent subjective bias. We analyzed all the 
impacts and financial results to build a prioritized 
list of material matters. We defined the threshold 
for prioritization to highlight ESG matters that 
came extremely high on either an impact or 
financial perspective or both. We mapped the 
material IROs to the existing GRI disclosures and 
applicable ESRS data points.
With the increasing integration of Artificial Intelligence (AI) across the value chain and emerging 
AI regulations, we incorporated impacts, risks and opportunities arising due to AI as part of the 
assessment. For e.g., evolving frameworks and regulations for AI leading to compliance challenges, 
and leveraging generative AI advancements in climate solutions, etc.
During this assessment, we recognized a substantial overlap between two previously distinct priority 
topics – Tech for Good and Energizing Local Communities. Since both are interlinked in terms of 
underlying drivers and relevance to Infosys, we made the strategic decision to merge these into a 
single theme – Amplifying Communities.
Message from the CFO
Corporate Overview
Approach to Reporting
ESG Highlights
Our ESG Priorities
Introduction
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
12  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Serve the preservation of our 
planet by shaping and sharing 
technology solutions
Adopt, invent and spread smarter ways to 
mitigate greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions, 
reduce energy consumption, manage water 
and waste. To make our planet stronger by 
consistently embracing clean tech in our 
operations and client solutions, thereby 
minimizing the impact on nature.
Environment
Vision
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
13  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
1 This will be measured annually against the Business-as-Usual (BAU) scenario, which refers to regular operations without 
interventions such as renewable power or energy conservation initiatives.
2 Business travel, employee commute, and transmission and distribution losses.
3 Measured against the 2020 baseline; includes business travel, employee commute, and transmission and distribution losses.
Environment vision 2030
Serve the preservation of our planet by shaping and sharing technology solutions
Performance on Environmental Goals
Climate Change
•  Maintaining carbon neutrality across Scope 1, 2 and 3 
emissions every year
•  Reducing absolute scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions by 75%1
•  Reducing absolute Scope 32 GHG emissions by 30%3
•  Engaging clients on climate actions through our solutions
•  Carbon neutral across Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions 
•  Reduced Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 71% over the BAU scenario  
•  Reduced absolute Scope 3 emissions by 24.1% over the 2020 baseline
•  Achieved leadership status on ESG by various analysts like HFS
Water
•  Maintaining 100% wastewater recycling every year
•  100% of the wastewater in our campuses is recycled
•  Our Bengaluru campus was awarded water positive certification under  
the NITI Aayog water neutrality guidelines in FY25
Waste
•  Ensuring zero waste to landfill
•  Diverted 98% of waste from landfill
Material Topics
Progress in fiscal 2025
Ambitions
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
14  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Infosys recognizes that climate change is more than an environmental challenge—it is a fundamental issue that affects economies, communities, and 
the way we live and work. As our business expands across regions, we are aware that growth goes hand in hand with responsibility. Expansion brings 
with it increased carbon emissions, resource consumption, and environmental pressure. That is why, we have embedded sustainability into the core 
of our operations through smarter design, adoption of clean energy, carbon offset initiatives, and biodiversity enhancement programs. Our ambition 
doesn’t stop at mitigation. We are working towards climate positivity, aiming to restore more than we consume, and contribute actively to the health 
of our ecosystems and communities. We are implementing large-scale agroforestry projects across several states in India. This shift towards climate 
positivity reflects our belief that the true measure of success lies not only in growth, but also in how much we give back. By aligning our business 
strategy with climate resilience and long-term environmental stewardship, we are building value—for our stakeholders, society, and future generations.
Infosys’ pledge: Climate Positive in 2030
Infosys’ climate positive strategy builds on the Company’s achievements over the last two decades
2008
Green Initiatives 
team was set up
2011
Voluntary 
commitment to 
become carbon 
neutral in 2020
2012
Radiant cooling 
technology, first in a 
commercial building 
in India
2014
First IT Company 
globally to publish a 
GRI G4 (comprehensive) 
sustainability report
2013
1 million sq.ft. of 
LEED Platinum 
certified buildings
2015
• International Ashden 
award. 
• First Indian Company 
to join RE100
2016
Initiated 
community-based 
offset projects
2023
G20 recognition, 
Infosys Crescent 
Building named one of 
100 Iconic Sustainable 
Buildings globally
2021
Reported and offset 
work-from-home 
emissions
2025
Launched 
BioConserve Summit, 
an annual conference 
on biodiversity
2025
Initiated large 
scale agroforestry 
projects
2024
Launched ASSURE, 
a multi-stakeholder 
program, with IIHS
2018
• Inducted into the DJSI World & 
DJSI Emerging Market Indices
• Pledge to ban single-use 
plastics
2017
• Achieved 50% reduction in energy 
and water intensity vs. 2008. 
• Infosys Pune Phase 2 became the 
largest campus in the world to 
get LEED Platinum certification
2020
• Achieved carbon neutrality
• Published ESG Vision 2030
VISION 
2030
Move beyond offset-driven neutrality to 
becoming climate positive
We achieved carbon neutrality across 
Scope 1, 2, and relevant Scope 3 
emissions, the first global IT services 
Company to do so, 30 years ahead of the 
Paris Agreement timeline
2020
Marks our sixth consecutive year of 
sustaining carbon neutrality — a legacy 
built on pioneering energy efficiency, 
renewable energy integration, and large-
scale offset projects
Our carbon neutrality is certified against 
ISO 14068-1, an international standard 
that provides Principles, Requirements, 
and Guidance for achieving and 
demonstrating carbon neutrality.
Infosys Carbon Neutrality Declaration: 
Carbon neutrality of global operations 
achieved by Infosys in accordance with 
ISO 14068-1
2025
Our journey
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
15  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Our approach to becoming climate positive focuses on transformational actions that address emissions at their source, leveraging innovative 
technologies and collaborative ecosystems. Two key pathways enable us. 
Institutional Climate Action 
By driving change across our operations, we aim to 
create a positive, scalable impact. Through granular 
emissions analysis across multiple areas, we have 
developed targeted, innovative solutions to drive 
meaningful reductions and make significant strides 
towards our climate positive ambitions.
Ecosystem Transformation
By enabling our suppliers and impacting the 
communities we are associated with, we proactively 
engage across the value chain. We advocate 
for ecosystem-wide transformation by building 
awareness, sharing knowledge, and uniting diverse 
stakeholders to accelerate collective progress.
Two pathways, one ambition
Infosys Kolkata campus
Emissions intensity  
11.76 tCO2e/MUSD Revenue
From carbon neutrality to climate positivity
Scope 1-  
Direct emissions
Scope 2 - Indirect emissions 
from purchased energy
Scope 3 -  
Other indirect emissions
• Transition to cleaner fuels with 
biodiesel blends, CNG / LPG, EVs, 
and battery-powered systems.
• Replace R22 refrigerants with low-
GWP sustainable alternatives.
• Drive energy efficiency through 
deep retrofits and targeted 
energy audits.
• Expand renewable energy 
via green tariffs and onsite 
generation.
• Decarbonize the supply chain 
through supplier disclosures, EPDs, 
and low-carbon sourcing.
• Promote low-carbon mobility 
via virtual collaboration, public 
transport, and EV campus transport.

Petrol 
emissions
Grid 
electricity 
(India & overseas)
Business travel
PNG 
emissions
Capital goods
Fire 
extinguisher
Waste generated 
in operations
Work from home
Employee 
commute
Fuel & 
energy-related 
activities (FERA)
Upstream 
leased assets
HSD 
emissions
Diesel  
emissions
Refrigerant 
emissions
Total emissions: 8,745 tCO₂e
Total emissions: 38,586 tCO₂e
Total emissions: 1,79,370 tCO₂e
From carbon neutrality to
Driving absolute emissions reduction across value chain
Climate Positivity
Key levers for decarbonization
Scope 1
Scope 2
Scope 3
FY 2023 (14.00) FY 2024 (13.13) FY 2025 (11.76)
0.39
9.74
3.01
0.47
10.10
3.42
0.45
9.3
2.0
Emissions intensity tCO2e/MUSD
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
16  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Other green initiatives
Low-carbon concrete mixes:  
By replacing up to 50% of Portland 
cement with Ground Granulated Blast 
Furnace Slag (GGBFS) and fly ash, we 
have reduced over 7,990 tonnes of CO₂e 
in a single project.
Sustainable materials: Manufactured 
sand and recycled steel reduce reliance 
on virgin resources while maintaining 
structural integrity.
Eco-friendly façades:  
We use ORAE Glass (70% recycled 
content) and Hydro CIRCAL 75R 
aluminum, which has 54% lower carbon 
emissions than conventional glass.
Reducing embodied carbon
Infosys continues to embed lifecycle 
thinking into the design and construction 
of its campuses, ensuring that our built 
infrastructure aligns with our climate 
goals. In FY 2023-24, we undertook cradle-
to-grave Life Cycle Assessments (LCA, A1–
C4 stages) for new buildings in our Pune, 
Hyderabad, and Bengaluru campuses to 
measure embodied carbon and identify 
optimization opportunities across the 
building lifecycle.
The assessments revealed that the highest 
environmental impact occurred during 
the product stage (A1–A3)—driven 
primarily by emissions from concrete 
and reinforced steel used in horizontal 
structures such as beams and slabs. For 
instance, embodied carbon intensity 
ranged from 616 to 651 kg CO₂e/m², with 
concrete and steel accounting for up to 
80% of material-related emissions in some 
sites. To mitigate this, we piloted multiple 
material optimization strategies. In 
Hyderabad, replacing 50% of cement with 
GGBFS reduced embodied carbon intensity 
by 15.8%.  In Pune, using 30% recycled 
content in concrete and 15% in steel 
reinforcements achieved a total reduction 
of 11.2%.
Looking ahead, we are exploring further 
interventions such as high-recycled-
content aluminum façades, low-carbon 
glass, increased fly ash in AAC blocks, and 
emerging low-impact alternatives like 
agrocrete and green steel. 
Greener by design: Reimagining 
infrastructure and buildings
Globally, buildings contribute nearly 40% of GHG 
emissions. For Infosys, they represent the most 
energy-intensive asset class, and therefore, the 
most powerful lever for emissions reduction. All 
new developments are designed to achieve the 
highest level of LEED certifications, with over 29.7 
million sq. ft. of green-certified buildings already 
operational. From design to operation, we adopt 
a lifecycle approach to emissions, maximizing 
efficiency at every stage. By integrating low-carbon 
strategies into design, material selection, and 
construction practices, we create buildings that are 
resource-efficient. 
Greener cooling 
Solidifying its ongoing commitment to sustainability 
and innovation, Infosys continues to adopt advanced 
technologies that reduce environmental impact 
and optimize operational efficiency. Our Indore 
campus is now home to Hydrofluoroolefin (HFO) 
magnetic chillers, marking a significant step in 
climate-conscious cooling.  HFOs offer a responsible 
alternative to traditional refrigerants, while magnetic 
chiller technology boosts energy efficiency and 
reduces operating costs. Building on this success, 
Infosys plans to expand the use of HFO chillers to 
its Noida and Hyderabad campuses. In parallel, 
all critical air-conditioning units at the Bengaluru 
campus have been upgraded to R-22-free systems.
Water-efficient construction
We also emphasize resource conservation during 
construction, by using water-efficient curing 
compounds that reduce consumption and 
environmental load.
Post-tensioned (PT) slabs decrease concrete and 
steel use, cutting embodied carbon and enhancing 
ISO 50001:2018 certification
As a demonstration of our commitment towards environmental stewardship and driving positive 
outcomes, we implemented an Energy Management System and achieved ISO 50001:2018 
certification for our Bengaluru and Mysuru campuses during the year.  We plan to continue improving 
our sustainability initiatives by including other locations in the certification process in a phased 
manner. This has enabled us to focus our efforts on improving energy efficiency, energy performance, 
and energy consumption.
HFO Chiller, Infosys Indore campus
Infosys Pune campus
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
17  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Asset ESG Corporate Awards 2024: Infosys 
won the 'Platinum Award for Excellence’, 'Best 
Initiative for Environmental Responsibility'
Awards
Infosys was awarded the Sustainability 
Champion of the Year Award at the FICCI 
Young Leaders Awards 2024
Best Sustainable Workplace Design of 
the Year Award in the "Large Segment" 
category for SDB-7 building of Hyderabad, 
Pocharam campus
Integrating sustainability in every aspect 
of our building portfolio is helping create 
workplaces where employees can work, 
collaborate and innovate in the most energy-
efficient environments possible. While our 
buildings over the years have demonstrated 
an Energy Performance Index (EPI) of 75 
kWh/m2/year, our greenfield projects across 
India are now being designed for an EPI of 
60 kWh/m2/year, one of the lowest in the IT 
services sector, pushing the boundaries of 
energy efficiency further. This performance 
is made possible through passive design 
strategies such as orientation, solar shading 
and insulation, innovative radiant cooling, 
efficient equipment and automation.
structural efficiency. Ready-mix or gypsum 
plasters ensure quality, reduce waste, and lower 
emissions through controlled application. Through 
these integrated efforts, we are not just building 
sustainably—we are redefining what responsible 
construction looks like in a net zero future.
Renewable energy 
Infosys was the first Indian Company to pledge 
commitment to RE100 in 2015. Over the years, we 
have ramped up our efforts towards our renewable 
energy goals. We source renewable energy 
through a diversified mix of captive solar plants, 
onsite installations, and strategic green energy 
procurement mechanisms. 
•  Infosys operates captive renewable energy plants 
with a combined capacity of 60 megawatts (MW), 
which form a significant component of our clean 
energy mix. These plants play a pivotal role in 
reducing our dependence on grid electricity and 
ensuring a steady, self-sustained supply of green 
power across key campuses.
•  To further scale our renewable energy portfolio, 
we are actively leveraging Power Purchase 
Agreements (PPAs) and procuring green power 
through government-supported green tariff 
mechanisms offered by Distribution Companies 
(DISCOMs). These arrangements are instrumental 
in expanding our access to clean energy beyond 
our own generation capacity. 
•  In addition, we have made extensive investments 
in rooftop and ground-mounted solar photovoltaic 
(PV) systems across our infrastructure. These 
installations are now present in 100% of our 
owned campuses. This wide deployment of onsite 
Infosys Hyderabad campus
Solar PV Installation, Infosys Hyderabad campus
solar assets not only contributes to meeting 
our operational energy needs sustainably but 
also reinforces our long-term commitment to 
decentralized, low-carbon energy generation.
Advancing energy 
performance
21%
Green Tariff
22%
Grid
38%
Own RE
19%
Purchased RE
Total power consumed  
in India by source
Carbon neutral across 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
18  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Sustainable mobility
Employee transportation accounts for a significant 
portion of our indirect emissions. At our Bengaluru 
headquarters, we are collaborating with local 
authorities to extend metro connectivity to 
our campus while promoting public transport 
alternatives. Our comprehensive commute survey 
provided valuable data on travel patterns, enabling 
targeted emission reduction strategies. We have 
introduced EV buses for employee commute and 
installed 1,325 EV charging points across campuses, 
powered by renewable energy.
Business travel
We are actively addressing travel emissions 
through multiple initiatives, implementing flexible 
work policies to reduce travel needs, promoting 
Approach to tackle Scope 3
Tackling Scope 3 emissions is critical to Infosys’ 
journey towards becoming climate positive. Our 
strategy goes beyond measurement by focusing on 
supplier collaboration, low-carbon procurement, 
sustainable employee mobility, and circularity in 
operations. From business travel to capital goods 
and work-from-home emissions, we are embedding 
climate action across our extended ecosystem with 
a focus on emissions in the following categories:
•  Sustainable mobility
•  Business travel
•  Waste
•  Work from home
•  Upstream leased assets
•   Transmission and distribution loss
•  Capital goods
Scope 3 breakdown (in tCO2e)
12%
Capital Goods
3.1%
Fuel and Energy-Related activities
<1%
Waste Emissions
40.5%
Business Travel
20.5%
Employee Commute
0.8%
Upstream 
Leased Assets
23.1%
Work from Home
carpooling and public transport, and transitioning 
to an electric vehicle fleet. Enhanced tracking 
methodologies now capture all transportation 
modes for more accurate emissions reporting. 
These measures not only lower our carbon footprint 
but also contribute to solving urban challenges like 
traffic congestion.
Waste
Our comprehensive waste strategy focuses on 
reduction, reuse and recycling, resulting in waste 
emissions dropping in FY25. Through facility-wide 
segregation programs and employee engagement 
initiatives, we have significantly increased recyclable 
material recovery while minimizing landfill waste. 
Digital transformation efforts have further reduced 
paper consumption across operations.
Work from home
With remote work now prevalent, we have 
implemented policies and training to reduce 
its environmental impact, which has enabled 
us to achieve a reduction in work-from-home 
emissions this year. Energy efficiency guidance 
for home offices and virtual collaboration tools 
help minimize our remote work footprint while 
maintaining productivity.
Upstream leased assets
We rigorously assess landlords and partners to 
ensure leased properties meet our stringent 
sustainability standards. Advanced building 
management systems and energy-efficient 
technologies are deployed to minimize energy 
consumption across all leased spaces. 
Transmission and distribution losses
Through operational optimization and partnerships 
with energy providers, we are improving grid 
efficiency to reduce transmission losses. Energy 
conservation measures across all facilities 
complement these efforts to minimize our 
electricity footprint.
Capital goods
Our sustainable procurement framework evaluates 
suppliers based on environmental performance, 
prioritizing durable, recyclable products. This 
approach has already yielded reductions in capital 
goods emissions this fiscal year while promoting 
circular economy principles.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
19  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Engaging suppliers 
As climate-related performance becomes a 
competitive differentiator, clients increasingly 
include Infosys’ climate credentials in Requests 
For Proposals (RFPs) and procurement decisions, 
reflecting the market-wide pivot towards 
sustainable partnerships. Infosys is committed 
to raising this bar within its own supply chain, 
ensuring that suppliers not only meet compliance 
requirements but actively contribute to emissions 
reduction. Our approach is guided by an integrated 
climate governance framework. Together, these 
measures are creating a supplier ecosystem 
that is climate-resilient, regulation-ready, and 
future-facing, reflecting Infosys’ vision of shared 
sustainability leadership.
In FY 2024, Infosys launched a strategic initiative 
to accelerate decarbonization in its supply chain, 
focusing on key IT hardware manufacturing 
suppliers, prioritized by spend. This initiative 
focused on securing detailed, forward-looking 
decarbonization roadmaps from these partners. 
In FY25, Infosys engaged 273 suppliers 
in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 
Supply Chain program. Suppliers were 
categorized based on the maturity 
of their climate-related practices 
and disclosures. We supported them 
through webinars, training on GHG 
accounting and SBTi alignment, one-
on-one mentoring, and best practice 
sharing. As a result, 55% of disclosing 
suppliers began or enhanced their 
climate strategies.
Formalized 
Emissions 
Reduction Plans 
Encouraging 
suppliers to 
establish clear,  
SBTi-aligned targets 
and structured 
action plans
 
Enhanced 
Procurement 
Practices
Embedding 
sustainability 
into sourcing 
criteria to drive 
environmentally 
responsible 
purchasing decisions
Strategic Supplier 
Engagement
Creating continuous 
engagement 
channels for 
knowledge exchange, 
performance 
monitoring, and joint 
innovation on low-
carbon solutions
Three critical pillars of Value Chain Decarbonization
Through strategic collaboration, we 
are advancing low-carbon, sustainable 
practices across our value chain.
A session with our supply chain partners
Infosys receiving an award from CDP on supply 
chain engagement
Value chain decarbonization:  
A collaborative climate strategy
With nearly 30% of our emissions linked to capital 
goods, decarbonizing our supply chain is a key 
priority. Infosys engages a wide range of partners, 
including OEMs, aggregators, contractors, and 
consultants, to tackle Scope 3 emissions through 
measurement, and more so, by driving behavior 
change, building capacity, and raising climate 
ambition. Through strategic collaborations, we are 
advancing low-carbon, sustainable practices across 
our value chain.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
20  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Carbon offsets and clean energy access 
Since 2016, Infosys has actively pursued impactful 
carbon reduction projects across India, focusing 
on energy access for rural communities. Through 
10 ongoing initiatives, including improved 
cookstoves and household biogas systems, we are 
delivering cleaner, more efficient energy to over 
2,72,000 families, transforming lives and reducing 
emissions. We observed our biogas projects 
empower women in rural India, who utilize 
biogas slurry to cultivate thriving kitchen gardens 
and vegetable farms, enhancing food security 
and generating income. Such successes across 
numerous villages underscore the multifaceted 
positive impact of our energy projects on farming 
communities.
Moving towards greater environmental 
impacts
To further our positive impact on the environment 
through our projects, we recognize that a 
comprehensive climate strategy necessitates 
removing existing carbon dioxide from the 
atmosphere. This understanding has led us to 
strategically integrate agroforestry projects into 
our climate action portfolio. Recognizing the 
challenges posed by traditional farming practices 
and climate change—including soil degradation, 
Saplings planted as part of the agroforestry project in Andhra Pradesh
Sapling distribution center, Anantapur district, Andhra Pradesh
Household biogas unit
aim to restore degraded lands and uplift rural 
communities through sustainable agricultural  
practices. We commenced the agroforestry 
projects in FY2025 and planted about 4,07,000 
saplings. By embracing agroforestry projects, 
Infosys is reinforcing its commitment to long-term 
sustainability, creating resilient communities, 
and directly contributing to the removal of 
atmospheric CO2, complementing our ongoing 
efforts to reduce our operational footprint. This 
strategic evolution from emissions reduction 
to CO2 removal underscores our dedication to 
comprehensive climate action.
reduced productivity, and economic instability for 
small and marginal farmers—we are committed 
to fostering sustainable agricultural practices that 
directly remove CO2 from the atmosphere through 
carbon sequestration.
Agroforestry, by integrating trees, shrubs, and 
crops, offers a transformative approach to 
enhance ecosystem services, diversify income 
streams, and climate-proof farm livelihoods. These 
projects will directly contribute to the removal of 
atmospheric CO2.
Our proposed multilayer agroforestry initiatives 
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
21  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Book launch, Barren Land to Verdant 
Campus - A saga of Greening
Nurturing Nature in Cities: BioConserve Summit 2025
Biodiversity is a vital indicator of ecological 
health, and its preservation demands collective 
action to create refuges in urban settings. Urban 
campuses can play a crucial role by acting as 
catalysts for sustainable development and 
forming a new class of conservation zones 
beyond protected areas and reserved forests. 
Our Mangaluru campus stands as a testament to 
this commitment.
The first BioConserve Summit 2025 was 
hosted by Infosys in collaboration with the 
Indian Institute for Human Settlements (IIHS). 
The carbon-neutral event brought together 
educators, researchers, policymakers, business 
leaders, and environmental groups to address 
the urgent challenge of urban biodiversity loss. 
Key themes included ecological restoration, 
biodiversity-friendly urban design, land-
sharing, and sustainable campuses. The summit 
reinforced India’s role in global conservation 
and supported the ‘30 by 30’ goal, urging 
urban campuses to become biodiversity hubs. 
Through BioConserve, Infosys reaffirmed 
its commitment to collective, cross-sectoral 
action for sustainable, nature-positive urban 
development. Barren Land to Verdant Campus - A 
saga of Greening, a book chronicling the journey 
of greening the Infosys Mangaluru campus, was 
launched at the Summit.  
Infosys Mysuru Campus hosts the annual Solar Decathlon
Driving Net-Zero Building Innovation through grassroots involvement
Infosys Mysuru hosted the Solar Decathlon 
India (SDI) 2024, the world’s largest net-zero 
building challenge, to foster community driven 
innovation for climate action. 
The event empowers students to co-create 
net-zero, climate-resilient building solutions by 
collaborating with industry experts on real-world 
projects. By backing SDI, Infosys champions 
grassroots innovation and helps shape the next 
generation of climate-conscious professionals.
At the 2024 event, over 650 students, faculty, 
and mentors engaged through exhibitions, 
presentations, and campus tours. Infosys 
leaders also served as jurors, awarding the 
Climate-Smart Innovation Award, reaffirming 
the Company’s role in advancing community-led 
climate solutions.
•  120 industry representatives interacted directly 
with the student finalists, reinforcing their roles 
as future leaders in the net-zero movement.
•  37 net-zero energy and water building and 
product solutions were presented at the event.
•  12 industry innovations addressing climate 
change were exhibited to 750 attendees at 
the event.
Ecosystem transformation
Infosys has undertaken several initiatives to address Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions, including collaborating 
with suppliers to ensure compliance and drive emissions reduction. We are also committed to leading the 
advocacy of ESG initiatives.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
22  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
22  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Infosys has long been a global leader in designing and operating sustainable, high-performance buildings, setting industry benchmarks. To scale 
this impact, Infosys launched ASSURE (Accelerating Sustainable Super-Efficient Real Estate), a multi-stakeholder platform in partnership with 
the Indian Institute for Human Settlements (IIHS). ASSURE showcases Infosys’ campuses as living case studies, enabling the replication of proven 
strategies for energy-efficient, climate-resilient infrastructure. Launched on May 09, 2024, the forum convened experts, policymakers, and industry 
leaders, including Peter Rumsey (Co-founder and CEO of Point Energy Innovations and visiting faculty at Stanford University, and a global authority 
on building decarbonization), to drive systemic change and ensure that India’s future buildings are not only smarter but radically more sustainable.
ASSURE - Decarbonizing the building sector in India
NANDAN M. NILEKANI
Chairman, Infosys
India’s building sector presents 
a significant opportunity to 
make progress on our nation’s 
sustainability goals. We are 
delighted to collaborate with IIHS, 
and to amplify the potential of their 
nation-wide community of industry 
leaders, practitioners, knowledge 
institutions, and students to drive 
positive climate action. ASSURE – 
our joint program – creates the next 
opportunity to make a significant 
impact on India’s environmental 
footprint, paving the way for a 
greener and more sustainable 
future for generations to come.”
ASSURE aims to demonstrate 
100 million sq. ft. of high-
performance commercial 
buildings in India by 2030
ASSURE, anchored by IIHS in a knowledge 
partnership with Infosys, is envisioned as the world’s 
largest organized initiative for realizing high-
performance buildings (HPBs). It builds on over a 
decade of domestic expertise, including Infosys’ 
own success in saving over US$250 million through 
HPB implementation. Running from 2024 to 2030, 
ASSURE prioritizes HPBs in the light of: 
•  The large, energy- and emission-intensive growth in 
India’s real estate sector. 
•  The risk of long-term energy lock-ins, poor living / 
working conditions, and circular economy setbacks 
under business-as-usual scenarios.
•   The transformative potential of HPBs to meet 
goals in climate action, innovation, job creation, 
and sustainable growth.
With a focus on commercial buildings, due to their 
higher energy and emission intensity per unit 
area, ASSURE will provide technical assistance to 
India’s largest developers for lighthouse projects 
totaling 100 million sq. ft., skill and upskill 12,000 
individuals, support 30 curated innovators, launch 
a performance measurement and verification 
platform to incentivize HPB adoption and financing, 
and engage policymakers and financial stakeholders 
to promote enabling policies and financing 
frameworks for HPBs.
Policy Advocacy  
Climate Lobbying - Infosys has a structured approach to ESG focused public policy activities and trade association memberships, ensuring 
transparency and alignment with its sustainability goals(refer to BRSR for more details). We actively collaborate with key industry bodies and global 
organizations to support policy development that benefits society and the environment. One of such examples is ASSURE (Accelerating Sustainable 
and Super-Efficient Real Estate), a multi-stakeholder platform in partnership with the Indian Institute for Human Settlements (IIHS) with a vision to 
accelerate decarbonization of the Indian building sector through dialogue, data, skilling and policy reforms. 
 
Public policy engagement and governance is led by the company's leadership. The company’s stance on climate-related policies such as Paris 
Agreement is promoted by our association with various organization such as FICCI, CII, NASSCOM, WEF, IGBC, WRI, etc. Infosys regularly reviews its 
association activities to ensure consistency with its climate commitments and responsible advocacy practices. Environmental policy alignment with 
our supply chain is a prerequisite for onboarding and performance against these commitments is audited regularly.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
23  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
At Infosys, we are deeply committed to 
empowering our clients to take meaningful climate 
action through our innovative solutions. Leveraging 
the latest advancements in technology, we offer 
tailored consulting and comprehensive solutions 
to help our clients understand and mitigate their 
environmental impact. 
Delivery capabilities
•  Our end-to-end partnership construct ensures 
that we provide holistic and integrated 
solutions from initial consultation to full-scale 
implementation enabling clients to adopt 
sustainable practices seamlessly. 
•  The Infosys Sustainability Cloud is a 
comprehensive platform designed to help and 
manage environmental, social, and governance 
Engaging clients on climate action through our solutions 
(ESG) initiatives. It leverages AI, cloud and 
blockchain and advanced analytics to unify 
fragmented ESG data, generate actionable 
insights, and drives sustainable operations across 
the value chain.
•  Our Federated Sustainability Delivery model, 
anchored by a transversal Sustainability Consulting 
practice, collaborates with multiple Centers of 
Excellence (CoEs) that specialize in technology-
driven sustainability solutions. 
•  We leverage cutting-edge AI and analytics to 
accelerate and scale sustainability programs.
Through strategic partnerships, we amplify our 
impact, co-creating tailored solutions that align with 
each client’s unique sustainability goals.
Service offerings
1. ESG Reporting & Compliance 
Setting up reporting platforms to help companies 
report and track their ESG performance in 
compliance with disclosure standards like GRI, 
CDP and CSRD. 
2. Supply chain Compliance & Sustainable Sourcing 
Tracking and improving the compliance 
of customers’ supply chain for various ESG 
parameters including GHG emissions, and 
compliance with other regulations such as 
CSDDD, EUDR and REACH.
3. Green IT 
Tracking and reducing GHG emissions, reducing 
waste and improving circularity in the operating 
and managing of IT assets are some  
of the key outcomes delivered by our Green  
IT offering.
4. Green Buildings 
Leveraging IoT technologies to monitor, 
optimize energy consumption in the operations 
of buildings to reduce Scope 1& 2 emissions. 
Our smart water management solution and 
waste management solution is available for 
implementation in the building domain (offices, 
campuses, factories, warehouses, etc.).
5. ESG Adoption & Digital Skills 
Delivery of change management initiatives 
to help organizations adopt ESG thinking and 
decision-making.
Partnerships
In 2024, we focused on building partnerships 
with Independent Software Vendors (ISVs), 
major technology and solution providers, 
research institutions, and governmental and 
non-governmental organizations. Notable 
partners include Google, AWS, Microsoft, SAP, IBM, 
Salesforce, The Economist Group, Financial Times, 
and the World Economic Forum. 
Since then, we have further expanded on this 
foundation and are now focusing on collaborating 
with niche startups and small players who are 
delivering industry-leading results on specific 
use cases in the areas like ESG reporting, supply 
chain transparency, and IT GreenOps. This strategic 
expansion aims to harness innovative solutions 
and specialized expertise to further enhance our 
ESG offerings and drive impactful outcomes for 
our clients.
Ashiss Kumar Dash, Global Head of Services, Utilities, Resources, and Energy, speaking at ONS 2024
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
24  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Customer stories
ESG strategy data and reporting
End-to-end ESG program 
for a leading food services 
Company 
Infosys is orchestrating a 
multi-year ESG transformation, 
spanning requirement definition, 
platform selection, and implementation. Our 
engagement includes automating data collection 
processes and enhancing data quality to ensure 
accurate and reliable ESG reporting. 
ESG advisory for a leading Irish food retailer  
We supported the client with CSRD-aligned data 
strategy, requirement gathering, and platform 
selection. Additionally, Infosys provided expertise in 
greenhouse gas (GHG) accounting. 
Sustainability integration for a Swedish pulp 
and packaging provider 
Infosys helped develop a strategic roadmap to 
embed sustainability into the client’s S/4HANA 
transformation, identifying suitable solutions to 
meet both current and future ESG requirements. 
Enhancing ESG data platforms 
For a Japanese consumer electronics major, we 
improved the automation of ESG data extraction, 
elevated data quality, and ensured robust data 
lineage to support key ESG metrics including 
CSRD compliance, packaging reduction, and waste 
management targets. Infosys configured and 
deployed ESG data collection on the ServiceNow 
platform, integrating over 100 KPIs and enabling 
seamless data flow to support comprehensive ESG 
performance tracking.
discussions and brainstorming aimed at developing 
innovative, sustainable solutions.
We also conduct regular webinars to raise 
awareness of ESG solutions and equip our sales 
teams to better position them with customers. Over 
the past year, our webinars have covered topics 
such as CSRD, green finance, and ESG in healthcare. 
Additionally, we have published whitepapers and 
delivered keynote speeches on key sustainability 
themes including:
•  Sustainable Urban Development and Smart Cities
•  Climate Tech and Clean Energy Innovation
•  AI and Big Data for Sustainability
•  Decarbonization of Supply Chains
Thought leadership and public/private 
footprint
Our active involvement in major events has been 
a testament to our commitment to advancing 
global sustainable practices. We have showcased 
our innovative sustainability solutions at leading 
platforms such as Hannover Messe, Aerocon 
India,Microsoft Sustainability Day, AstraZeneca 
Innovation Day, ISHRAE Urjavaran, and the EMEA 
Confluence on Green Business: A Blueprint for 
a Better Tomorrow. These forums enabled us to 
highlight our capabilities and collaborate with 
industry leaders to accelerate sustainable progress. 
Beyond events, we actively engage in sustainability 
ideation and innovation roadshows. These 
roadshows foster customer collaboration through 
Green value chain and products
Trusted partner to a French 
food multinational
Infosys supported key 
sustainability initiatives 
across the Company’s supply 
chain. We led programs on 
EUDR compliance, supplier decarbonization, and 
product carbon footprint analysis, while also 
advising on sustainability best practices and 
foundational data strategies.
Data platform implementation
For a major energy project company, we are 
driving the selection and implementation of a data 
platform to enable complex Scope 3 emissions 
reporting and improve life cycle–based emissions 
calculations—enhancing Environmental Product 
Disclousures (EPD) quality and reducing project 
carbon footprints.
Reporting carbon data
For a global consumer goods company, Infosys 
tracks and reports carbon data across 150+ sites 
on a monthly, quarterly, and annual basis. We 
analyze warehouse and transportation KPIs using 
prescriptive analytics to identify emission reduction 
opportunities.
Winner of World Media Awards for Value Chain Navigator 
Sharing sustainability best practices at Global Supplier 
Conference of an Aerospace major
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
25  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
 
Infosys offers a patented innovation, the Radiflux 
Radiant Baffle System, as a transformative 
solution for energy-efficient cooling in buildings. 
Developed in-house, Radiflux delivers up to 40% 
energy savings compared to conventional HVAC 
systems, accelerating decarbonization efforts. 
Deployed across Infosys' campuses and marquee 
client sites in India, it enhances operational 
efficiency using 16°C chilled water for radiant 
cooling, delivering superior energy performance, 
better indoor air quality, and enhanced thermal 
comfort. Its compact, retrofit-ready design 
minimizes space and maintenance costs, 
making it ideal for modern offices. Leveraging 
proprietary engineering and design, the baffles 
are integral to HVAC performance and  
 
sustainability. Radiflux is a cost-effective, scalable 
solution aligned with evolving environmental 
goals and ESG commitments.
Sustainable operations
Driving asset management 
transformation
For a leading aviation OEM, 
Infosys is the strategic IT partner 
driving the transformation of its 
building and asset management 
landscape from legacy systems to a best-in-class 
SaaS platform. This includes deploying IoT-enabled 
smart building solutions to enhance operational 
efficiency, asset performance, maintenance 
management, and reduce energy consumption.
Green IT solution
For an energy-sector client, Infosys' Green 
IT solution enables a holistic approach to 
sustainability within the IT ecosystem. It 
identifies key emissions across scopes 2 and 3, 
using multi-criteria factors like life cycle, energy 
use, and consumption patterns. With granular, 
reliable data from IT domains—cloud, networks, 
applications, and web—the client can precisely 
assess environmental impact. The solution 
supports benchmarking against global standards 
and enhances transparency in communicating 
sustainability commitments to stakeholders. It 
improves operational efficiency by eliminating 
waste and inefficiencies like over-sizing and 
redundancy. Additionally, it fosters innovation by 
embedding digital responsibility principles such as 
accessibility, ergonomics, and security into digital 
service design.
Hosting a roundtable at ONS2024
Radiflux Radiant Baffle System
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
26  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Water is fast becoming one of the most critical sustainability challenges, shaping global conversations around climate resilience, biodiversity 
preservation, and human well-being. Many of our campuses are located in regions already facing significant water stress. Recognizing this early, 
Infosys understood that its responsibility must extend beyond operational efficiency. Aligned with our climate-positive goals, we continue to be 
committed to reducing our water footprint and enhancing water availability in the communities where we operate. The growing global water 
crisis, coupled with the critical role of water in sustaining our operations, workforce, and surrounding communities, made water stewardship a clear 
and pressing area of focus.
Water
100% wastewater recycled
Reducing our water footprint 
We continue to work towards reducing our water 
consumption through demand reduction measures. 
These include low-flow fixtures, sensor-based 
taps, pressure compensating valves and aerators, 
and smart water metering. Our new buildings are 
designed for less than 24 liters/day per person total 
water consumption, which comprises 15 liters/
day fresh water. 100% of the wastewater within 
our campuses is treated and reused for flushing, 
gardening and cooling tower makeup purposes.
Rainwater harvesting continues to be a focus area. 
40 lakes across our campuses have a capacity 
to store over 430 million liters of rainwater. 409 
injection wells help in recharging over 20 million 
liters of rainwater per day, thereby improving the 
water table and enhancing water availability in the 
communities surrounding us.
Our approach
We address water positivity through a three-
pronged strategy that drives both internal 
excellence and external impact:
Efficiency
Designing for a 
low-water future. 
Minimizing 
consumption 
through 
operational 
excellence.
Community 
Impact 
Enabling 
water security 
beyond 
operational 
boundaries.
Circularity
Closing the 
loop within 
our systems.
Lake, Infosys Hyderabad campus
By 2030, 50% of the global population is projected to face water scarcity, and we have been acting on this for more than two decades. Infosys endorsed the UN Global Compact's CEO Water Mandate in 
2014, ratifying its commitment to "zero wastewater discharge", and we have maintained zero wastewater discharge across our campuses. This has since evolved into a pioneering water stewardship 
model. Over the last decade, Infosys has moved from water-efficient campus design to institutionalizing a model of water stewardship—one that regenerates ecosystems, safeguards community water 
security, and sets benchmarks for the IT sector. 
As part of the climate-positive initiatives, Infosys plans to recharge more than its consumption (fresh water and treated water) and unit intensity across its operations.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
27  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Water bodies integrated within the Infosys Bengaluru campus
Water neutrality 
certification for Infosys 
Bengaluru campus
The campus successfully met the criteria 
across all three scopes and categories.
Scope 1: Operational Efficiency 
•  Focused on direct water resource 
offsets, considering both quantity and 
quality. 
•  Employed the 3M7R approach to 
enhance operational efficiency. 
•  Evaluate site-level water usage and 
impacts at the watershed level. 
Scope 2: Operational Sustainability 
•  Identified water-critical components of 
the supply chain. 
•  Calculate virtual water offsets and 
assess dependencies. 
•  Develop strategies to maintain a 
sustainable water balance in operations. 
Scope 3: Validation, Verification, and 
Reporting 
•  Implement rigorous mechanisms 
for data validation and third-party 
verification. 
•  Emphasize transparent reporting 
of water consumption, offsets, and 
outcomes.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
28  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Lake rejuvenation projects
Our commitment to water stewardship extends 
beyond operational efficiency to creating 
meaningful impact in the communities we operate. 
By collaborating with local stakeholders, we help 
restore water bodies and raise awareness about 
responsible water use. These efforts strengthen 
community resilience and  foster a shared sense of 
responsibility for natural resources, ensuring that the 
benefits of water stewardship reach far beyond our 
organizational boundaries. Our campuses are living 
laboratories for water stewardship.
Rejuvenation of lakes is vital for India’s sustainable 
development. As water scarcity and urban pollution 
grow, restoring lakes ensures water security, recharges 
groundwater, and supports biodiversity. These 
ecosystems play a key role in climate resilience and 
provide livelihoods to local communities. Leadership 
at all levels, government, industry, and civil society, 
Lake rejuvenation project, Doddathoguru lake, Electronics City, Bengaluru
must collaborate to protect these natural assets. 
Reviving lakes is an environmental imperative and 
a socio-economic necessity. It reflects responsible 
governance and long-term vision.  
Infosys has taken up lake rejuvenation projects across 
multiple cities in India through local stakeholders and 
NGOs. The 11 lake rejuvenation projects currently 
taken up by Infosys is expected to create an additional 
capacity of 4.3 billion liters thereby enhancing the 
water table, increasing water access, and improving 
health and wellness in the communities.
11 lake rejuvenation projects 
led to an increase in 
capacity of 4.3 billion liters.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
29  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Waste management is a complex global challenge, with practices and effectiveness varying 
widely across regions. Rising populations and shifting consumption habits are driving a surge 
in waste generation, while poor waste management continues to pollute land, water, and air, 
raising alarm over environmental degradation. Developing countries face particular hurdles, 
including limited resources, rapid urbanization, and inadequate infrastructure to manage waste. 
The World Bank estimates global per capita waste generation at 0.74 kg per day, with projections 
indicating a rise to 3.4 billion tonnes annually by 2050, more than twice the growth rate of the 
global population. While traditional waste systems can manage annual costs, transitioning to a 
circular economy, through prevention, sustainable design, and full lifecycle management— offers 
greater long-term benefits. For Infosys, waste is a priority material topic with clear relevance 
to our stakeholders. Our strategy is framed around circularity. Using a data-driven approach, 
we aim to continuously improve our waste strategy and enhance alignment with our broader 
environmental, social, and governance commitments.
Waste
Reduce
Refurbish/ Repurpose
Reuse
Refuse
Recycle
5R hierarchy—Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, Refurbish/Repurpose, and Recycle
Our approach
Our waste management strategy is firmly 
rooted in the principles of circularity, aiming 
not only to minimize environmental impact 
but also to reimagine waste as a valuable 
resource. This vision is supported by a robust 
combination of technology, behavioral change, 
and strong governance, with the ultimate 
goal of achieving zero waste to landfill while 
advancing global sustainability objectives. Our 
waste-related disclosures are aligned with globally 
recognized frameworks to ensure transparency 
and accountability. Our reporting is guided by the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 306: Waste 2020 
standard, as well as India’s Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report (BRSR) requirements. 
We tackle the waste challenge through a clear, 
structured strategy that spans the entire lifecycle of 
our operations. Our 5R hierarchy—Refuse, Reduce, 
Reuse, Refurbish/Repurpose, and Recycle. 
Towards zero waste to landfill
Through targeted recycling, reuse, and co-processing 
initiatives, we continue to reduce the amount of 
waste sent to landfills. Our waste diversion strategies 
not only help us achieve environmental goals but 
also contribute to resource conservation.
Treatment
We have created capacity to treat 100% of the 
organic waste within our campuses (food waste and 
garden waste), through biogas plants and organic 
waste converters. The resulting biogas is used in 
food court kitchens and the compost is used in the 
landscaping. Sewage sludge generated from the 
sewage treatment plants is treated in solar drying 
greenhouses, and the resulting dry sludge is mixed 
with compost and used in landscaping.
Segregation
Effective segregation of waste is achieved using wet 
and dry bins, and further segregation into different 
waste streams such as paper, plastic, metal, wood, 
etc. Storage of waste in scientifically designed 
scrap yards with segregated waste stream enables 
effective disposal through authorized recyclers for 
each stream of waste.
TRUE zero certification
We have achieved TRUE zero certification for waste 
from Green Business Certification Institute (GBCI) 
for 3 of our campuses. More campuses are in the 
process of getting TRUE zero certification.
Waste is an important dimension of the HSEMS 
policy, aligned with ISO 14001:2015 standards across 
all India locations in line with our HSE Strategy.
98% waste diverted 
from landfill
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
30  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
E-waste management
As a technology-driven organization, the generation 
of e-waste is an inherent aspect of our operations. 
Our e-waste stream comprises a wide range of items, 
including IT hardware, mobile devices, printers, 
cartridges, electrical appliances such as refrigerators, 
microwaves, air conditioners, lithium-ion batteries, 
and various electronic accessories.
We have adopted a forward-looking e-waste 
management strategy that prioritizes 
refurbishment over disposal wherever possible. 
This refurbishment-first model not only extends the 
lifestyle of electronic assets but also aligns closely 
with circular economy objectives. For equipment 
that cannot be refurbished, we work exclusively 
with authorized recyclers who are rigorously 
assessed for compliance with legal standards 
and the degree of circularity embedded in their 
recycling processes.
Environmental compliance
Going beyond legal and regulatory obligations, 
Infosys has always been at the forefront of 
Governance framework 
Our governance framework includes:
Policy & Protocols 
Standard operating procedures for each waste 
category, updated annually or as necessary, to 
reflect changes in laws and best practices. 
Audits & Legal Review 
Regular internal and third-party audits verify 
compliance; any non-conformances trigger 
corrective action plans. 
Vendor Evaluation Framework 
We assess and approve waste-management vendors 
based on regulatory adherence, capacity for resource 
Employee and community engagement 
We actively engage our employees and the 
surrounding communities to reinforce and extend 
our zero-waste goals. Building upon our strong 
stakeholder collaborations, we aim to create a 
culture of waste-consciousness both within and 
beyond the organization. Our approach combines 
education, hands-on activities, and community 
engagement programs to drive behavioral change 
and deepen understanding of waste circularity.
We run regular awareness campaigns—including 
mailers, workshops, and digital challenges—
designed to inform employees about best 
practices in waste segregation and reduction. 
These campaigns have featured initiatives like 
“Beat Plastic Pollution”, where teams compete to 
minimize single-use plastics, and internal “waste 
plogging” events combining litter collection with 
jogging. Such activities not only reduce waste 
on campus but also inspire participants to adopt 
sustainable habits beyond the workplace. 
To extend our impact into the community, we 
partner with local schools and NGOs for student 
outreach programs. Volunteers distribute compost 
and biogas slurry generated onsite to home 
gardeners, demonstrating the practical benefits 
of organic-waste recovery. Sustainable-product 
giveaways—such as reusable bags and bottles—
reinforce the message of waste prevention, while 
community clean-up drives help improve the 
areas surrounding our campuses. By empowering 
employees as ambassadors and collaborating with 
community stakeholders, we create a virtuous 
cycle of awareness and action. This people-
centric engagement complements our technical 
and operational initiatives, ensuring that waste 
management becomes everyone’s responsibility 
and drives us closer to our zero-waste ambition.
Team members from our Mysuru campus 
landscaping unit participated in a plastic waste 
collection drive organized by the Karnataka State 
Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) at Chamundi Hills. 
The effort covered the temple surroundings and 
the entire 1,000-step path leading to the foothills, 
demonstrating our deep-rooted commitment to 
environmental stewardship both on and  
off campus.
Innovations in waste management 
Our focused efforts on reducing diversion from 
landfills resulted in piloting conversion of garden 
waste into biomass briquettes in our Hyderabad 
location. 
Volunteers from Infosys participating in waste drives
This project resulted in manufacturing biomass 
briquettes by the service provider which is then 
utilized as alternative fuel in boilers, in cement industry 
etc. We also piloted an initiative where organic 
waste is transformed to compost with an innovative 
methodology using Black Soldier Flies at our Mangalore 
campus.  This resulted in fast decomposition and more 
nutrient rich compost compared to vermicompost 
which is used as manure in our campus landscape. 
  
We also carried out creative sustainability initiatives 
by repurposing materials such as unused cable drums, 
tyres, wood logs, plastic cans and bottles into aesthetic 
items like chairs, pots, and decorative pieces which are 
displayed on our campuses.
Training & Awareness  
We have a dedicated ESG learning portal on LEX our 
learning platform for all our employees worldwide.  The 
portal boasts over 100 courses, assessments, leader talks, 
articles and publications on ESG topics.   Fortnightly 
publications on ESG through the ESG learning series 
ensures employee learning and continuous engagement 
on a variety of topics.  In FY 2025, we had 20+ 
publications, spanning introduction to sustainability, 
water management best practices, circular economy, 
effective waste management practices, anti-corruption 
and anti-bribery and more.  Beyond training, employees 
are also encouraged to be part of initiatives to build 
‘responsible citizenship’ through vibrant Development 
Center CSR and Eco volunteer groups in order to 
strengthen learning, awareness and practices in 
environmental topics in the larger community.  
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
31  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
strategy, which covers a significant portion 
of employees across the organization. The 
management system is implemented across 
locations globally based on applicable legal 
requirements and internal benchmarks and are 
a part of our internal audit coverage. We ensure 
adherence to applicable legal requirements across 
our locations. 
ensuring compliance through responsible 
business practices. As a global company, we abide 
by all international and national laws and uphold 
the standards of transparency and accountability.
We have a strong environmental management 
system aligned with ISO 14001:2015 standards 
across all India locations in line with our HSE 
We conduct environmental impact assessments 
for most of our activities. Environmental impacts 
of new services, activities, and changes in process 
or legislation are also assessed. We conduct 
environmental impact assessment studies for 
all new projects, wherever applicable, covering 
impacts related to air, water, social aspects, and 
biodiversity, among others. 
No cases of monetary or non-monetary sanctions 
for violations have been reported in fiscal 2025. A 
process for monitoring requirements in line with 
legal requirements is established and we ensure 
that all parameters are always maintained well 
within the defined norms.
Infosys Mysore Campus
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Social Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Serve the development of 
people by shaping a future with 
meaningful opportunities for all
We provide solutions and enable those 
we hire, those we work with and those 
around us, to not only live better, but also 
participate in progress for all. Technology is 
our way of doing good around us.
Social
Vision
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
33  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
Performance on Social Goals
Material Topics
Progress in Fiscal 2025
Ambitions
•  Recognized as a Top Employer in 22 countries across Europe, Middle East, Asia 
Pacific, and North America for best-in-class HR practices and processes
•  Great Place to Work 2024: Recognized for value driven culture and trust, across 
India, US, Canada, Mexico
•  World Record in Wonder Book of Records: Largest employee and family-driven 
corporate volunteering initiative
•  Facilitating best‑in-class employee experience 
and being recognized among the best 
employers in our key operating regions.
Facilitating 
Employee Wellness 
and Experience
Energizing Local
Communities
•  ~84% of our employees leveraged flexible working options.
•  Delivering 33% of work by leveraging flexible / 
remote work options.
Nurturing Workplace 
Inclusivity
•  39% women in the workforce
•  156 nationalities in the workforce
•  Creating a gender‑diverse workforce at Infosys, 
with 45% women.
Tech for Good
•  More than 125 million lives empowered via Tech for Good programs in 
e-governance, healthcare, and education.
•  Empowering more than 80 million lives via 
TechForGood programs in e-governance, 
healthcare, and education by 2025.
Enabling Digital 
Talent at Scale
•  Reached 13.3 million people through our 
digital skilling initiatives.
•  Extending digital skills to more than 10 million 
people, including employees, clients’ workforce, 
students, teachers and communities by 2025.
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
34  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Infosys’ vision to enable digital talent at scale is founded on the recognition that we are in the age of artificial intelligence,  a transformative era 
where the convergence of data, automation, and cognitive technologies is redefining every aspect of life and work. Digital literacy is no longer 
a competitive advantage, it is a fundamental necessity. Infosys believes that the future belongs to those equipped to co-create with AI, adapt 
to evolving technologies, and innovate to solve real-world challenges. As AI becomes embedded in decision-making, it opens unprecedented 
opportunities to reimagine learning—making it more personalized, accessible, and impactful. This is also a moment to invest in societal progress. 
Infosys sees digital skilling as more than a corporate responsibility, a means to amplify human potential extending to underserved populations, 
schoolchildren, and university students, creating pathways for millions to become future-ready. By democratizing access to emerging technologies, 
Infosys is cultivating a global talent pool ready to thrive in the AI-driven economy.
Fostering inclusive growth
Infosys' initiative to enable digital talent at scale is 
a material issue for its stakeholders, as it directly 
supports inclusive growth, talent readiness, and 
equitable access to opportunities—priorities 
identified through our engagement with various 
groups. Advancements in technologies such as 
AI and smart automation can be leveraged to 
boost productivity and address broader societal 
Enabling digital talent at scale
Extended digital skills to 
13.3 mn people including 
employees, clients’ 
workforce, students, teachers 
and communities
Approach
Leveraging our robust digital platform 
infrastructure, Infosys plans to scale through 
a multi-pronged approach: 
•  Enhancing programs focused on women 
and girls.
•  Expanding internships, and integrating AI-
powered platforms with job marketplace 
features. 
Students collaborating on a project at Infosys Mysuru Training Center
Skilling the Infosys workforce
Staying relevant has never been more critical, 
as the demand for new skills is outpacing the 
rate at which they can be acquired. To keep up, 
skilling programs must be built around continuous 
learning—with a strong focus on employee 
growth and adaptability. Our AI-powered learning 
Going forward, we plan to expand the strategy to 
deeper collaboration with national digital skilling 
initiatives and universities, embedding integrated 
curriculums to build industry-ready talent. A diverse 
distribution across geographies, partnerships 
with clients, governments, academic bodies, and 
direct-to-learner engagement further underscore 
our commitment to democratizing digital skills and 
enabling opportunities for everyone.
challenges. Clients, governments, communities, and 
other stakeholders are increasingly focused on how 
companies are bridging the digital divide, especially 
as demand for digital talent surges globally. This 
aligns with Principle 8 of the BRSR which emphasizes 
inclusive growth and equitable development.
Expanding digital skilling efforts is not only a matter 
of good governance but also critical to Infosys’ social 
license to operate and long-term value creation. 
ecosystem is designed to meet this need by 
enabling ongoing upskilling at scale. A key 
feature is its ability to deliver hyper-personalized 
learning experiences. Through the Lex platform, 
employees can access tailored learning paths, 
virtual assistants, and gamified modules that make 
learning both engaging and accessible.
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
35  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Foundation education program
The Foundation Program training for freshers focuses 
on grooming the young graduates into talented IT 
professionals. This training includes the basic IT skills 
training where the nitty gritty of programming is 
given more attention. Then the training focuses on 
making them well versed in a specific technology 
stream out of the 50+ available streams. The freshers 
are evaluated periodically through assessments. 
They undergo a capstone project towards the end 
of the training which enables them to work with 
enterprise grade applications. The Foundation 
Training Program, anchored across India, Mexico, the 
US, the UK, Canada, Germany, Australia, Singapore, 
and Japan, continues to enable newly onboarded 
entry-level hires to transform into corporate 
professionals. Comprising 50+ technology streams, 
the curriculum has kept pace with the dynamic 
business requirements and the preferred pedagogical 
approach of the current generation of talent. The 
curriculum continues to be current as courses on 
generative AI and prompt engineering have been 
introduced into the foundation program to equip 
the freshers on the latest technologies. Fresh recruits 
undergo rigorous foundation training program in 
Infosys Global Education center at Mysuru which is 
largest corporate training facility in the world. Since 
its inception in 2005,  238000+ graduates with as 
many as 13,500 learners in one single batch have 
been trained by a pool of 850+ trainers. 
Investments made on training freshers through the 
Foundation program are recovered within a month of 
their deployment to client engagements.
Continuous learning
Ensuring that Infosys’ workforce remains agile, 
innovative, and aligned with the demands of 
emerging technologies is an imperative. The Lex 
19-23 week  
residential program
Career advancement program
platform enables anytime, anywhere learning,  
used by employees to stay abreast with the latest 
technological trends. 
Recent 
enhancements 
to the Lex 
platform
AI and GenAI 
Integration
Technology 
Playgrounds 
& Simulators
Assessments
Peer-to-Peer 
Learning
Virtual Learning 
Assistant
AR/VR 
Content
Gamification
• AI-driven 
personalized 
learning paths and  
virtual learning assistants
• Use of GenAI for learning  
analytics, creating immersive 
assessments, and personalized 
learning data
• Hands-on 
experiences with 
cloud containers 
and open-source 
technologies
• GenAI-powered 
professional skill 
simulators that 
create interactive 
learning scenarios
• Encouragement of social 
learning platforms to  
promote knowledge  
sharing and  
collaboration
• Incorporation of gamified learning to motivate 
employees with recognition and badges
• Storytelling formats to share personalized 
learning data, helping employees track 
progress and realign goals
• Personalized avatars, learning styles  
  (Socratic, Adaptive, Storytelling),  
     and multi-language support
• GenAI-backed 
assessments to 
provide creative 
and immersive 
testing formats
• Virtual proctoring 
for secure 
and effective 
evaluation
• Use of AR/VR to create 
engaging learning 
pathways and hands-on 
experiences
LEX
6,99,000+ 
lifetime users 20,000+ 
unique learners on 
any working day
40 minutes 
of learning time 
on average
36,000+ 
learning 
courses 
950+ 
guided 
learning paths
Additional programs
Infosys continues to invest in additional programs 
that nurture future-ready talent and foster 
collaboration with emerging technologies. 
The Company has deepened its academic 
partnerships, hosting various workshops with 
hyperscale partners like AWS, Azure, and GCP, 
offering employees hands-on exposure to cloud 
computing and GenAI technologies. 
We also have programs supporting mid-level 
employees to advance their careers include 
Milestone programs and the Bridge program – an 
intervention that helps employees transition into 
new career streams.
Employees who are unable to clear the Foundation 
Education Program inspite of additional support 
and coaching are enabled to improve their 
skills through external training, leveraging our 
partnerships with learning institutions.
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
36  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Skilling the community
Infosys is committed to democratizing digital education through its Springboard initiative, 
which offers free access to quality online learning for students, educators, and underserved 
communities across India. With features like Lab on Wheels and the Springboard Makers Lab, 
Infosys brings hands-on learning experiences to remote areas, breaking barriers of geography and 
connectivity. These community-focused programs are not only promoting digital inclusion but are 
also nurturing a broader, future-ready talent pool for the digital economy..
Infosys Springboard
In keeping with Vision 2030, we believe that 
access to digital education should be a right, not a 
privilege. That belief led to the creation of Infosys 
Springboard under our Tech for Good charter, a 
platform dedicated to bridging the digital divide 
and ensuring that no one is left behind in an 
increasingly connected world. Today, Springboard 
has grown into a catalyst for digital inclusion and 
sustainable development. Millions of learners across 
India, whether in bustling cities or remote villages, 
are accessing free, self-paced online courses that 
cover emerging technologies and essential soft 
skills. In partnership with many universities, and 
reaching more than 9 million registered users, 
Springboard is reshaping the way education is 
delivered, making it accessible, inclusive, and 
future-ready.
Springboard is more than a learning platform. It is 
a launchpad. Through career guidance, internships, 
and initiatives like "Her Journey to Success," we 
are preparing learners not just for jobs, but for 
meaningful careers, particularly empowering 
women and girls to shape their futures with 
confidence. Innovation drives everything we do.
Springboard Makers Lab on Wheels
Distribution of tablets by Infosys Springboard
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
37  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
Samskruti College students get hands-on experience in robotics with the SpringBoard Maker Lab on wheels.
By integrating AI, VR, and AR technologies, 
Springboard delivers an engaging, personalized 
learning experience. Our collaborations with 
government agencies, universities, NGOs, and 
industry leaders amplify our reach, while our 
commitment to underserved and differently-abled 
communities ensures that no one is left behind.
We also know that barriers to education aren't only 
digital—they are physical. That’s why we created the 
Springboard Lab on Wheels—a mobile classroom 
bringing world-class education to the remotest 
corners of India. Launched in Karnataka and piloted in 
Pune in February 2024, the Lab reaches learners who 
Skilling Infosys’ clients
Infosys Wingspan
Through Infosys Wingspan, we extend digital skilling 
expertise to our clients. This cloud- and mobile-first 
platform helps enterprise workforces accelerate 
their transformation journeys with a learner-centric 
approach, enabling goal setting, skill practice in 
virtual labs, assessments, and personalized content. 
By embedding GenAI-driven features, Wingspan 
ensures that clients' employees stay competitive 
and adaptable, positioning Infosys as a strategic 
partner in capability building and innovation 
delivery. A learner-centric approach enables setting 
personalized learning goals, receiving tailored 
recommendations, practicing skills in fail-safe virtual 
lab environments, and tracking progress through 
assessments and achievement metrics. 
In this fiscal year, GenAI features were introduced 
to the Wingspan platform enabling clients to adopt 
these advanced capabilities for their employees.
might otherwise be disconnected from opportunity. 
For areas with limited connectivity, our Springboard 
Raspberry Pi solution allows students to access 
content offline, uploading their progress once they 
reconnect. And at the Springboard Makers Lab in 
Pune’s Symbiosis Lavale Campus, students now 
have access to hands-on, experiential learning that 
turns theory into practice. At Infosys, we are not 
just preparing individuals for a digital future, we 
are helping build a more equitable, empowered 
world. Through Springboard, we are proving that 
when technology meets purpose, the possibilities 
are limitless.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
38  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
At Infosys, our belief in technology as a force for good is not aspirational—it is operationalized across every layer of our social impact agenda. 
We have reimagined the role of digital platforms, AI, and skilling ecosystems to bridge systemic gaps in access, opportunity, and inclusion. Guided 
by this vision, we have empowered over 125 million lives through our Tech for Good initiatives—exceeding our target of impacting 80+ million 
lives by 2025 across education, healthcare, and e-governance. This extraordinary reach reflects not just scale, but sustained intent to democratize 
opportunity through responsible digital enablement.
Meaningful impact through technology
Tech for Good is a vital priority for Infosys 
stakeholders, reflecting our commitment to 
driving meaningful and inclusive impact through 
technology. We engage communities, an essential 
Tech for good
stakeholder group, through local interactions, 
partnerships with NGOs, and digital channels. Our 
initiatives are designed to address structural gaps 
like digital literacy, preventive healthcare, and 
inclusive education, to empower individuals from 
125mn+ lives empowered 
through Tech for Good 
programs in e-governance, 
healthcare, and education
Spotlight on MOSIP
MOSIP – Modular Open Source Identity 
Platform
In partnership with the Modular Open Source 
Identity Platform (MOSIP), Infosys has co-
developed secure, inclusive digital identity 
solutions now used by governments in five 
countries. These open-source platforms have 
provided over 10 million individuals with access 
to vital services like healthcare, education, and 
banking, especially in low- and middle-income 
nations. This contribution has unlocked access 
to critical public services, such as healthcare, 
education, and financial services, and significantly 
advancing financial inclusion.
By supporting an open-source framework, Infosys 
is helping reduce the cost and complexity of 
implementing digital ID solutions, especially in 
low- and middle income nations.
MOSIP aligns with our belief that digital 
infrastructure should be interoperable, inclusive, 
and cost-effective, paving the way for national 
development. Infosys’ technical expertise ensures 
these systems are robust and scalable, reinforcing 
our commitment to digital equity.
SightConnect team presenting a demo of the app
marginalized groups to participate in the digital 
economy. In doing so, Infosys reinforces its social 
license to operate, expand trust capital, and align 
with the long-term interests of stakeholders. This 
dual lens, impact and insight, defines how we lead 
in the era of sustainable technology.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
39  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
Spotlight on SightConnect
Launched in 2024, SightConnect continues to 
make eye care more accessible to all. It is a mobile 
app created through the Tech for Good program 
in collaboration with Infosys Foundation and the 
LV Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI). It is designed to be 
simple, free, and available anytime, anywhere. It is 
an easy-to-use eye care tool, allowing individuals 
and community health workers to conduct basic 
eye tests, help diagnose eye conditions early, 
Pioneering impact platforms: Healthcare, identity & education
Smart, AI-powered features
With features like AI-based triage, facial recognition, 
and adaptive brightness, SightConnect is proving 
to be a practical, reliable solution for low-resource 
settings—taking quality eye care one step closer to 
everyone. Advanced facial contour recognition and 
adaptive screen brightness ensure reliable results even 
in challenging environments. Through visual acuity 
testing and a questionnaire, SightConnect generates a 
preliminary assessment of eye health, indicating whether 
an urgent or routine consultation is recommended. It 
has been tested successfully in clinical trials at LVPEI. 
SightConnect’s AI model that screens for early signs of 
cataracts and red eye is undergoing development.
Multi-lingual capability
The app supports multi-lingual eye 
test questionnaires. Automated 
translations for both the app text and 
the Interactive Voice Response (IVR) 
system, powered by the Ai4bharat 
IndicTrans2 – Bhashini model  ensures 
that language isn’t a barrier to reach 
accessible care to India’s diverse 
communities.
Communication
Even with access to technology, patients may 
struggle to connect with health workers or 
may do so without the necessary information. 
Similarly, healthcare workers often face 
challenges in relaying accurate diagnoses to 
physicians. Bridging these gaps—by effectively 
connecting patients, healthcare workers, and 
doctors—can mean the difference between 
limited access to care and truly benefiting from 
it. Strengthening communication across this 
chain has reinforced the eye care ecosystem 
and extended essential services to individuals 
who often go without.
Total patients onboarded: 
1,75,000
Referred to doctors: 35%
and allow smooth referrals to specialists. These 
simple, but crucial functions are helping prevent 
avoidable vision loss in communities where 
access to healthcare initiatives is either lacking 
or unaffordable. 
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
40  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
Digital cornea bank
Extending this mission further, Infosys is pioneering 
a digital cornea bank, a transformative step toward 
optimizing cornea preservation and distribution. 
Powered by Agentic AI, this smart system is 
designed to significantly reduce cornea wastage 
Testimonials 
The app has already made a difference, real-life 
stories show how early intervention through 
SightConnect helped prevent vision loss and 
supported continued education or employment.
EYE CARE JOURNEY
In Telangana’s Ranga Reddy 
district, a 9th-grade student 
underwent an eye screening 
using the SightConnect app at 
ZPHS Kandukur school. When the 
test indicated a vision issue, she 
informed her parents, who then 
accessed her test results through 
the app. With the in-app referral, 
they visited a nearby eye hospital 
where she was diagnosed and 
prescribed spectacles. This early 
intervention helped her regain clear 
vision and continue her studies 
without hindrance.
EYE CARE EXPERIENCE
During a student screening at ZPHS 
Vamsoor in Khammam district, the 
class assistant decided to test his 
own vision using SightConnect. 
The app flagged an urgent need 
for consultation. Following its 
guidance, he visited the L V Prasad 
Eye Institute where he received a 
prescription for spectacles and 
eye drops. The treatment greatly 
improved his vision, and he 
expressed heartfelt gratitude for 
the technology that helped restore 
his sight.
HEADMASTER INITIATIVE FOR 
STUDENTS
After screenings revealed vision 
issues among students at ZPHS 
Kandukur, the Headmaster took 
proactive steps to ensure their 
well-being. Using the SightConnect 
app, he identified students 
needing immediate attention and 
personally accompanied them to 
a local eye camp. Thanks to his 
initiative and the app's guidance, 
eight students received spectacles, 
improving their ability to engage 
fully in classroom learning.
SightConnect team presenting a demo of the app
and ensure more donated corneas reach patients 
in need. By digitizing and intelligently managing 
the corneal transplant process, Infosys is not just 
innovating in healthcare, but driving meaningful 
impact in the fight against corneal blindness.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
41  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
At Infosys, we envision a future where diversity, equity, and inclusion power innovation, growth, and shared success 
across the world. We are committed to building and sustaining a workplace where every individual is respected, 
empowered, and given equal opportunity to thrive. Rooted in our Code of Conduct and Ethics, and guided by the 
principle of 'Respecting Each Other,' our vision for inclusivity is not just a value we uphold, it is a catalyst for taking 
everyone forward together.
Inclusion and innovation
We believe inclusion is a strategic advantage to 
any organization. A diverse workforce brings richer 
perspectives, fuels creativity, strengthens problem-
solving, and drives deeper connection. Diversity 
drives innovation and innovation drives Infosys.
Our commitment is to create a gender-diverse 
workforce at Infosys, with 45% women by 2030 
In 2025, this stands at 39%.
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Our approach
At Infosys, our inclusion strategy is built on a simple 
yet powerful belief. The solutions we create must 
reflect the diversity of the customers we serve. 
To truly understand and meet the needs of a 
global client base, we are committed to building 
an equally diverse and inclusive workforce. By 
cultivating an environment where different 
perspectives, backgrounds, and experiences are 
valued, we enhance our ability to innovate, solve 
complex challenges, and deliver transformative 
outcomes for our clients around the world. In today’s 
interconnected world, not embracing inclusivity 
is a missed opportunity, becoming a significant 
business risk, impacting our ability to stay relevant, 
competitive, and resilient. 
Our inclusion strategy is anchored in strong 
governance and data-driven leadership.
•  Inclusion governance structure: Our goals are 
integrated into the corporate scorecard and 
cascaded in order to ensure accountability across 
levels. Our Inclusion Councils, established globally, 
across geographies, business units, and locations, 
create a powerful matrix of collaboration and 
ownership. These councils, composed of leaders 
from both business and enabling functions, are 
designed to address strategic priorities while 
being responsive to local diversity needs. Periodic 
reviews strengthen the impact and agility of our 
inclusion efforts.
•  Data-driven inclusion leadership: The Infosys 
Inclusion Leadership Tool provides real-time, 
24/7 access to data, empowering business and 
HR leaders to make informed, timely decisions 
regarding hiring, growth, and retention of 
diverse talent. This tool enhances visibility to 
accelerate action, and ensures that inclusion 
progress is measurable, transparent, and 
continuously evolving.
A culture of inclusion
At Infosys, inclusion is a living part of our culture, 
embedded in how we lead, learn, and grow 
together. Guided by the principle of ‘Respecting 
Each Other’, our goals are integrated into leadership 
KPIs, supported by multi-level Inclusion Councils, 
and reinforced through our learning platform LEX, 
which offers a multitude of resources on inclusion. 
Real-time sentiment tracking through Pulse ensures 
employee voices are heard and acted upon, 
while communities like IWIN and campaigns like 
#ThriveAtInfosys fosters belonging and challenges 
biases. From inclusive infrastructure to flexible 
policies and cultural celebrations, every touchpoint 
at Infosys reflects our deep commitment to 
building a workplace where everyone feels valued, 
empowered, and included.
39% women in 
the workforce
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
42  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
Women at Infosys
Empowering women is a critical pillar of our 
commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. As a 
proud signatory to the UN Women’s Empowerment 
Principles (WEP), we strive to create an environment 
where women can thrive across technology, 
management, and leadership roles. Through 
focused workplace policies, continuous investment 
in learning and development, and tailored 
interventions, we enable women to achieve their 
personal and professional ambitions.
Supporting women through life stages
Our parental leave programs reflect our dedication 
to work-life balance and career continuity. Women 
avail 26 weeks paid maternity leave in India. In 
fiscal 2025, 99% of women employees who took 
maternity leave successfully returned to work, with 
79% continuing their professional journey with us 
after 12 months. A total of 14,309 employees—7,904 
women and 6,405 men—availed parental leave 
during the year.
Restarting careers with confidence
Through our Restart with Infosys program, we 
are committed to welcoming back talented 
professionals who have taken a career break. The 
program offers a structured learning platform and 
mentorship support to help them transition back 
into the workforce with confidence. In fiscal 2025 
alone, 935 women rejoined the corporate world 
through this initiative, further strengthening our 
diverse talent pool.
Accelerating women's leadership 
development
 In pursuit of our ESG 2030 Vision, we continue to 
implement  several initiatives to propel women into 
leadership roles.
•  #IamtheFuture: A flagship program designed to 
prepare women for senior leadership roles. Over 
200 women leaders enhanced competencies 
in Business, Execution, People, and Ecosystem 
leadership through collaborations with 
Northwestern Kellogg, MIT, and masterclasses by 
Harvard Business Review.
•  Focus on AI and digital transformation: More 
than 250 women leaders completed a specialized 
certificate course on AI applications for business 
growth. Their learning culminated in real-world 
business cases showcased at Infosys Connect in 
Austin, mentored by senior technology leaders.
•  Leadership influence and communication: 
Over 100 #IamtheFuture participants undertook 
a curated leadership journey with Stanford GSB 
focused on influence, persuasion, and executive 
presence.
Building a strong pipeline of future leaders
 We are equally committed to nurturing future 
leaders through initiatives including:
•  Orbit Next:  Orbit Next is our flagship program 
designed to propel women into leadership roles 
within the technology and business sectors. This 
comprehensive initiative goes beyond just skill 
development. It fosters a supportive ecosystem 
where women can sharpen their technical and 
business acumen, develop leadership skills, and 
build valuable networks through mentorship 
opportunities, workshops, and networking events, 
participants connect with established leaders 
and build a strong support network within the 
organization. This fosters a sense of community 
and provides access to invaluable guidance and 
career development resources. Over 400 women 
enrolled in its third cohort across India, EMEA, and 
APAC. 1,278 women have completed the program 
since its inception in FY2023. 47% of them have 
advanced to the next role.
•  TechCohere: An exclusive technical platform 
hosting 120+ sessions and multiple Women in 
Technology (WIT) Weeks, supporting a thriving 
community of 1,200+ women tech experts 
and architects. Initiatives like SheLovesTech in 
Chennai and collaborations with Google Women 
TechMakers further strengthen networking and 
leadership opportunities.
•  Women in management (WIM): A specialized 
two-day program that helps women managers 
overcome career hurdles, build personal brand 
presence, and strengthen leadership skills through 
modules like Gallup’s Strengths Finder, case 
studies, networking, and leadership interactions.
Driving continuous learning and inspiration
 Our Winspire Portal serves as a dedicated resource 
for over 40,000 women at Infosys, offering curated 
content, career support, and inspiration. We 
have also introduced exclusive learning modules 
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
43  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
designed to drive greater inclusion and create 
resources and three certifications, ranging from 
basic to advanced levels. To date, more than 22,300 
Infoscions have completed their ABD learning 
journeys, enhancing our collective ability to build 
accessible experiences for all.
We continue to champion a barrier-free workplace 
through curated e-learning courses that educate 
employees on the various types of disabilities and 
the practical steps needed to create accessible and 
inclusive environments. 
Accessibility Living Lab
Infosys Accessibility Living Lab is a unique learning 
space to experience digital accessibility firsthand. 
Through simulated interactions and real-world 
scenarios, the lab fosters empathy and awareness 
of accessibility challenges, introduces users to 
assistive technology and facilitates the creation of 
digitally accessible solutions. The lab also features 
Infosys Accessibility Platform, an AI-first, cloud-ready 
accessibility, and inclusivity solution with a patented 
audit tool to identify and address accessibility gaps 
and AI-based functions to confirm inclusivity.
Creating opportunities beyond the 
workplace
Our support extends beyond the corporate walls. 
With a focus on livelihood development for persons 
with disabilities, we proudly restarted the MITTI 
training and mentorship to students, job seekers, 
and early-career individuals with disabilities. In 
the first PEP batch, 100+ mentees benefitted from 
workshops and mentoring focused on critical 
career readiness and technical skills.
LGBTQIA+
Fostering a workplace where every individual can 
thrive, irrespective of gender identity or sexual 
orientation, is core to our vision of an inclusive, 
forward-looking organization. As a signatory to 
the UN Free & Equal campaign, we reaffirm our 
commitment to building an environment where 
members of the LGBTQIA+ community feel seen, 
respected, and empowered.
Creating a culture of awareness and allyship
Our journey of inclusion is rooted in education 
and advocacy. We create allyship through three 
specialized learning modules on our Inclusion 
Learning Channel. These modules equip employees 
with knowledge, empathy, and actionable tools 
to become better allies and champions for the 
LGBTQIA+ community.
We also amplify voices from within and beyond the 
organization. Personal stories, blogs, and expert 
interviews featuring well-known personalities from 
the LGBTQIA+ community are hosted regularly on our 
Inclusion Learning Channel, fostering understanding, 
connection, and celebration of diverse experiences.
Building inclusive infrastructure & policies
In fiscal 2025, Infosys introduced inclusive restrooms 
across all India campuses, taking a tangible step 
toward making our physical spaces welcoming and 
safe for all gender identities. Recognizing the unique 
experiences and challenges faced by transgender 
individuals, we have also launched specialized 
Café at our Bengaluru Development Center (DC), 
a venture that provides dignified employment 
opportunities and fosters greater inclusion within 
our workplace communities.
Partnerships to empower talent
Through our partnership with Microsoft under the 
Microsoft Enabler Program, we participated in the 
Prepare for Employment Program (PEP), offering 
opportunities for women in the workplace.
Employees with disabilities
Our commitment to enabling employees is deeply 
woven into our diversity, equity, and inclusion 
strategy, driving us to create barrier-free, accessible, 
and empowering environments across all our 
workplaces. There are 1,095 employees who  
have voluntarily declared disabilities, as on  
March 31, 2025.
Focused hiring and retention
Our targeted hiring and retention initiatives for 
employees with disabilities have yielded positive 
results, reinforcing our belief that diversity 
strengthens our business and our culture. Through 
structured programs and ongoing support, we are 
creating pathways for individuals with disabilities to 
thrive and grow within Infosys.
#AccessibleByDesign
We are fostering a culture of inclusion through our 
AccessibleByDesign (ABD) campaign, that raises 
awareness and builds critical skills for designing and 
implementing inclusive software and solutions. To 
support continuous learning, we have developed 
a dedicated digital Accessibility Learning Channel 
on our internal platform, LEX, featuring over 60 
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
44  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
courses on the inclusion of transgender employees 
in the workforce, driving deeper awareness and 
building a supportive ecosystem for their success.
Read more.
Embracing multiculturalism and 
multigenerational diversity
Beyond gender identity, we are committed to 
embracing the full spectrum of human diversity. 
Recognizing the evolving demographics of our 
workforce, we introduced new courses to sensitize 
employees about working across different cultures 
and generations. These initiatives help foster 
mutual respect, enhance collaboration, and ensure 
that our workplace thrives on the rich tapestry of 
perspectives brought by employees from varied 
backgrounds, experiences, and age groups.
Employee Resource Groups
Beyond leadership commitment and policy, there 
is a larger focus on where employees experience 
inclusion in their everyday workplace, interacting 
with colleagues and immediate teams. To 
strengthen these micro ecosystems, Employee 
Resource Groups (ERGs) act as huge enablers. 
ERGs, including allies, provide a safe and supportive 
space within Infosys where employees can connect 
and foster a sense of belonging. The perspectives 
and ideas shared within these groups are taken 
seriously and thoughtfully considered. Infosys is 
committed to ensuring that every employee feels 
supported and valued by the organization.
Infosys Women’s Inclusivity 
Network (IWIN) for women 
employees and their allies
iPride for members of the 
LGBTQ+ community 
and their allies 
Multicultural ERG (MERG) to 
celebrate a multicultural 
workforce and enable 
collaboration across cultures 
iBELIEVE for our 
Black employees and the 
Black diaspora
Family Matters, focusing on 
building awareness on 
parenting, relationships, 
health and wellness  
InfyVets for Infoscions 
who are military veterans 
and their allies 
Young Employees 
Network(YEN) for the young 
and young at heart 
InfyAbility for employees with 
disabilities and their allies 
Hispanic Organization for Latinos.
Creates a sense of community and 
belonging for Hispanic employees, 
provides development opportunities 
and fosters an inclusive work 
environment whereby this 
constituency can feel heard, 
valued, and supported.
Our ERGs include
Awards
•  Recognized as the winner of the 2024 UN 
Women’s WEP India Award in the Gender-
inclusive Workplace category. 
•  Recognized as a Silver Award Winner in the 
India Workplace Equality Index (IWEI) 2024.
•  Awarded the Diversity and Inclusion 
Employer of the Year at the 2024 Digital 
Revolution Awards.
•  Recognized as India's Best Workplaces™ 
for Women 2024 : Top 50 (Large) for the 4th 
consecutive year.
•  Recognized as India's Best Workplaces™ in 
Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging 2024 : 
Top 25.
•  Recognized as one of the Best Companies for 
Women in 2024 by Avtar and Seramount, for 
the sixth consecutive year. We have also been 
featured in the Hall of Fame for featuring for 
5+ years in Best Companies.
•  Recognized as the Champion of Inclusion in 
the Most Inclusive Companies Index 2024 by 
Avtar and Seramount for the fifth year.
•  Won "Best Initiative in Diversity and 
Inclusion" for Restart with Infosys Program at 
Asset Awards, 2024.
•  Certified as a Disability Confident Recruiter 
2024 from the Australian Network on Disability 
(AND) for 5 years now.
•  Accredited as Level AAA in DI-verse Awards 
by American India Foundation (AIF) for 
inclusion of persons with disabilities.
•  Infosys ANZ has been recognized on 
WORK180 women’s job platform.
•  Our Head DEI was recognized with the US 
Embassy DEIA Excellence Award in 2024.
Diversity, Equity, Inclusion (DE)I is subject to different interpretations in various jurisdictions. Infosys follows the law in every 
jurisdiction in which we operate, and respect for others and having an environment where everyone can succeed is a core value.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
45  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
Infosys Foundation
Established in 1996, Infosys Foundation supports 
programs in the areas of education and skill 
development to enable sustained livelihoods, 
healthcare, women empowerment, and 
environmental sustainability, amongst others. Its 
mission is to work with the underprivileged across 
the country and strive towards a more equitable 
society. Infosys Foundation takes pride in working 
with all sections of society, selecting projects 
with infinite care, and working in areas that are 
traditionally overlooked by society at large.
Healthcare interventions are focused on bringing 
critical services to India’s grassroots along with 
strengthening accessible healthcare institutions 
with state-of-the-art infrastructure. Hospitals and 
institutes like Madras Medical College, Sri Sathya 
Sai Sarla Memorial Hospital, LV Prasad Eye Institute 
(LVPEI) among others have benefited from focused 
interventions from the Foundation. Through our 
community-based health projects led by Sangath, 
Banyan, The Antara Foundation, Centre for Cellular 
and Molecular Platforms (CCAMP) and KEM Pune, 
we provide focused healthcare to marginalized 
communities especially women in tribal areas and 
difficult to reach geographies.
Education initiatives are focused on bridging the 
gap between education and employability by 
making in-demand skills accessible to learners with 
free platforms like Infosys Springboard. We have 
specialized programs making STEM education 
accessible to remote regions of the country through 
collaborations like Nirmaan Organization, Agastya, 
Infosys Foundation USA 
Infosys Foundation USA is committed to expanding 
access to computer science and maker education 
for K-12 students and educators across the USA, 
while equally working to digitally upskill all 
learners for 21st century technology-enabled 
opportunities. Through its programming, signature 
initiatives and the two digital learning platforms of 
Infosys Springboard USA, the Foundation reached 
1.1 million students and over 10,000 educators in 
fiscal 2025, taking the total number of students to 
over 26 million and educators to over 1.5 million 
since inception.
In fiscal 2025, the Foundation proudly expanded 
its impact with a focus on AI education and 
career readiness. Our strategic partnerships with 
nonprofit organizations provide opportunities to 
inspire all students to become creators, not just 
consumers of technology. The intensive two-
week summer ‘Kode With Klossy’ coding camps 
we hosted at Infosys offices provided girls and 
Energizing Local Communities
Avanti Fellows, Yuva Unstoppable, eVidyaloka Trust, 
Unnati Foundation, and Ramakrishna Mission. 
Beyond the classroom, the Foundation also 
prioritizes sports education through initiatives like 
Girls for Gold, and PPBA.
The fourth edition of Aarohan Social Innovation 
Awards launched by Infosys Foundation seeks 
to encourage and reward social innovators for 
offering solutions in Education, Healthcare, 
and Environmental Sustainability that have the 
potential to bring about a significant difference to 
the underprivileged across India, at scale. Infosys 
Foundation is offering prizes up to INR 50 lakh per 
category, with a total award purse of INR 2 crores 
along with mentorship and incubation.
Read the Infosys Foundation 2024 report 
gender-nonconforming youth with foundational 
coding skills. In partnership with the Mark Cuban 
Foundation, we expanded access to AI education 
through a series of AI bootcamps for students in 
Raleigh and NYC. Additionally, courses offered 
by Code for All Minds and Deaf Kids Code on 
the Infosys Springboard USA - Pathfinders 
Online Institute provided STEM resources for 
neurodivergent learners and hard of hearing 
educators and students. 
FY25 also brought new beginnings for the 
Foundation with the launch of a ‘Tech Innovation 
Lab’ at the Discovery Place Science in Charlotte, 
NC. Curated in partnership with Infosys Financial 
Services and iCETS, attendees of the museum 
have access to the state-of-the-art GenAI 
experience “TogetherTales” and can engage 
with the avatar “Keira” and are invited to create 
Infosys Springboard USA digital accounts. We also 
celebrated the launch of a new ‘STEM Lab’ at the 
Boys and Girls Club of King County in Seattle, WA 
which is part of our larger commitment to engage 
Boys and Girls Clubs chapters local to Infosys Ltd. 
offices across the country. Infosys Foundation 
USA was proudly honored at the “Celebration of 
Success Gala” in New York City, where we were 
acknowledged for six years of hosting the Infy App 
Design Challenge for NYC high school students. We 
also participated in our first ever “Impact Gala” in 
San Jose, CA where we celebrated the Foundation’s 
ten-year anniversary with sponsorship from Trustee 
Anand Swaminathan and in partnership with 
Infosys CMT colleagues and stakeholders, and non-
profit partners.
Infosys Foundation USA-sponsored ‘STEM Lab’ at the 
Boys & Girls Clubs of King County
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
46  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
Infosys Springboard in the USA
The Foundation expanded its Infosys Springboard 
USA digital learning platform to support K–12 
educators and students, providing access to digital 
skills and training in current technology trends 
and professional development.The platform allows 
lifelong learners to upskill anytime and anywhere at 
no cost. On behalf of K-12 educators, the Foundation 
curated AI instructional resources including tools 
to reach people with disabilities. Examples include 
‘Practical AI for Educators’ from CodeJoy which 
highlights AI as a powerful instrument for creative 
thinking, and Introduction to Creative Coding by 
Code/Art, which offers engaging video coding 
lessons for diverse learning environments.
The Foundation supported the 3rd cohort of the Infy 
Tech Pioneers program, reaching over 40 college 
students from institutes such as UNC Charlotte, 
Purdue University, Boston University, and Rutgers. 
This program provides an immersive learning 
experience in Generative AI on Springboard and 
support from Infosys FS and other mentors. Our 
commitment to upskilling and empowering diverse 
learners with technology skills continued with the 
launch of the Electric Minds program that connects 
Infosys SURE colleagues with DTE Energy and 
Henry Ford College in Detroit, MI for an eight-week 
cybersecurity program that leverages content 
from Springboard. To reach younger students, we 
expanded our partnership with the Phoenix-based 
SciTech Institute to send 30 of their middle school 
students to a thought leadership conference in 
Chicago, IL where they served as Springboard 
Scholars, sharing the platform with their peers.
Pathfinders Summer Institute
The Pathfinders Summer Institute is the Foundation’s 
professional development program for K-12 
public and charter school educators, public and 
community librarians, and district tech specialists 
in computer science and maker education. This 
free 40-hour virtual training is offered each year 
from June to August with curated content from 
external trusted curriculum partners. In fiscal 2025, 
the Foundation convened its largest ever Summer 
Institute by upskilling 1,250 K-12 educators in 
computer science and maker education across 
26 professional development courses around the 
theme of AI. The instruction was buttressed by a live 
webinar series, “AI Bits and Bytes,” which was led by 
external speakers from the Mark Cuban Foundation, 
Code.org, Google and representatives of the AI 
Topaz team at Infosys Ltd. Each of these educators 
returned to the classroom and shared their new 
knowledge with an estimated 7,50,000 students.
Champions program to 35 across the Infosys group. 
The CSR Champions led our first ever National 
Volunteer Week program, engaging 333 volunteers 
in community projects across the country.
Beyond National Volunteer Week, our volunteers 
were active throughout the year achieving impact 
and delivering upon the Foundation’s mission to 
digitally upskill learners in computer science and 
emerging technologies.
In cities such as Houston, Hartford and New York, 
25 Infosys mentors curated ‘STEM Bootcamps’, 
welcoming local students to their respective Infosys 
offices for a day of workshops in app design, AR/
VR, project management and much more. The 
Foundation continued its reach in Providence, 
RI by hosting a design workshop at the Infosys 
Providence Design and Innovation Center for 
Latina students participating in the Technolochicas 
program. We also expanded our partnership with 
Kode With Klossy to host a ‘Code-A-Bration’ at the 
Infosys Richardson Technology and Innovation Hub, 
engaging over 35 local students with 12 Infosys 
mentors in immersive STEM programming. For 
three consecutive weekends, 50 Infosys mentors 
supported the Mark Cuban Foundation-led AI 
Bootcamps, which reached 75 students across NYC, 
Richardson, TX and Raleigh, NC, engaging them 
in practical AI and machine learning concepts. 
Lastly, the Foundation’s signature ‘Infy App Design 
Challenge’, entered its seventh year in partnership 
with the nonprofit PENCIL. The Challenge virtually 
connected 45 Infosys mentors with groups of 
local NYC students to work from January to May 
on designing an app that solves a need in their 
community. In fiscal 2025, Infosys Foundation USA’s 
volunteer efforts reached new heights with a total 
of 650 volunteers.
Employee volunteering and community 
impact
The Foundation has cultivated a strong culture of 
volunteerism among its USA-based employees, who 
actively engage in impactful initiatives that advance 
the mission of digital upskilling in their communities. 
In fiscal 2025, the Foundation expanded its CSR 
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
47  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
EMEA Region 
SWITZERLAND
World Economic Forum: Panel Discussion on 
Education in Emergencies
As Ukraine enters its third year of war, 1.9 million 
children rely on remote learning due to damaged 
schools. At the World Economic Forum (WEF) 
on January 21st, 2025, Infosys and Street Child 
hosted a panel to address this crisis. The discussion 
emphasized the critical role of education in 
providing stability and hope during crises, essential 
for children’s well-being. Infosys and Street Child 
highlighted their efforts in renovating digital 
learning centers and creating resources to ensure 
continuous learning. Effective partnerships between 
governments, NGOs, and the private sector were 
deemed crucial for impactful solutions. Anastasiia 
Lytovka from Street Child shared insights on their 
work, demonstrating effective collaboration. 
Moderated by Kenneth Cukier from The Economist, 
the panel featured Inderpreet Sawhney from 
Infosys, Lisa Yasko from the Ukrainian Parliament, 
and Tom Dannatt from Street Child. The discussion 
underscored the urgent need for innovative 
solutions and collaboration to support education in 
emergencies, ensuring it remains a beacon of hope 
for children in conflict zones.
STEM Day for Kids
Infosys, in partnership with Sunrise GmbH, hosted 
an event supporting Little Scientists Switzerland. 
Forty children participated, learning about robotics, 
coding, and science through engaging activities 
using LEGO. This event effectively promoted STEM 
education in a fun and interactive way.
UNITED KINGDOM
Tech She Can – Tech Inspiration Day
Infosys partnered with TechSheCan to launch a 
Teacher Continuous Professional Development 
program on Springboard, available since January 
2025. Local students to our Digital Innovation Centre 
in London, experienced virtual reality workshops, 
networked with Infoscions, and benefited from 
insights into how Infosys is leading in next-gen 
digital services.
London Youth – Tech Careers Insight Day
Infosys’ WongDoody joined London Youth for 
their “Tech Careers Day.” Over 100 young people 
from across London gathered to learn about the 
vast opportunities within the tech industry. Our 
volunteers lent their expertise, sharing personal 
stories and professional tips to mentor and inspire 
the participants.
Chapter One
In September 2024, we launched our volunteering 
program with Chapter One UK. Twelve Infoscions 
are dedicating 30 minutes each week to help 
disadvantaged children struggling with reading. 
So far, our volunteers have delivered 125 sessions, 
totaling 3,527 minutes.
Teachers’ Tech Conference
Infosys partnered with Teach First to host our 
first-ever Teachers’ Tech Conference at our Digital 
Innovation Centre, London Canary Wharf. Over 
40 educators from across the UK gathered to 
hear about how technology can enhance student 
learning and teacher effectiveness. Laptops were 
donated to Stockwell Primary School in London. 
Recently, the London office donated 36 disused 
laptops to a local primary school.
FRANCE
UNESCO Digital Learning Week
In September 2024, Infosys was a proud sponsor of 
UNESCO’s Digital Learning Week in Paris. The 3-day 
event was attended by 900+ participants from over 
100 countries, including 23 Ministers and Deputy 
Ministers of Education and ICT.  Inderpreet Sawhney, 
General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer at 
Infosys spoke at the second plenary session on the 
open day which focused on AI Competencies for 
students. Panelists included:  H.E Dr. VathanaSann, 
Secretary of State, Ministry of Education Youth and 
Sport, for Higher Education, Cambodia, Mr. Andreas 
Schleicher, Director for Education and Skills, OECD. 
Inderpreet Sawhney highlighted how Infosys has 
built successful AI learning architecture. She also 
conveyed her thoughts on the application of the 
UNESCO AI Competency Framework in education, 
focusing on how Infosys has integrated AI learning 
into its corporate training.  
LEPC Hackathon
Infosys is now entering its third year of partnership 
with Les entreprises pour la Cité (LEPC). LEPC is 
a French non-profit organization whose mission 
is to amplify the societal impact of our partners, 
promote social innovation, and equal opportunities 
for all. We deepened our relationship to deliver 
their Innov’Avenir program through Springboard, 
enabling nationwide reach. The program targets 
young students from priority neighbourhoods, 
providing them with the skills needed to successfully 
navigate digital changes in society and encourage 
their interest in digital careers, including their 
integration into the professional world. Through 
initiatives like the Hackathon we bring together 
students to use design-thinking to develop 
innovative projects around sustainable development 
and civic engagement.
Fête le Mur
Fête le Mur is a socio-sportive association founded by 
Yannick Noah in 1996. The organization uses tennis 
as a tool to combat social exclusion and promote 
inclusion among children and young people from 
underprivileged urban areas in France. By providing 
access to tennis, Fête le Mur helps young individuals 
develop essential life skills, build self-confidence, 
and foster a sense of community. In partnership 
with Infosys, Fête le Mur will expand its impact by 
creating programs to be delivered via Springboard. 
The courses will focus on tennis and leadership, 
developing tennis in neighborhoods, and how tennis 
can be a tool for education and inclusion. 
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
48  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
GERMANY
CIO Charity Run
In May 2024, Infosys employees participated in 
the CIO Charity Run in Germany. At the event, 
running and cycling activities helped raise funds 
for two fantastic causes: Hacker School and 
SOZIALHELDEN e. V.
Christmas drive
For Christmas, Infoscions donated school supplies, 
clothes, healthcare, and household items to 
Mädchenbüro Milena e. V., an educational and 
integration institution for girls and women. The 
institution supports an independent youth welfare 
program and offers girls and women, with and 
without a refugee background, a protected place 
to meet.
INCO
Infosys is partnering with INCO, a world-leading 
social enterprise, to upskill and reskill job seekers 
in Germany and the Netherlands through Infosys’ 
free-to-use online learning platform, Springboard.  
INCO offers digital training to underrepresented 
youth (16-25) in Germany and the Netherlands. The 
program includes courses on data analysis, software 
development, cybersecurity, digital marketing, UX/UI 
design, mentorship Programs, and support forums.
Infosys and INCO co-hosted a launch event in 
February 2025, at Infosys’ Düsseldorf office. The 
event featured networking opportunities, a 
Springboard demo, success stories, workshops, and 
interactive showcases. It provided valuable insights, 
learning, and professional growth opportunities. 
Also on the cards are quarterly events for job seekers.
MädchenbüroMilena e.V. 
Infosys supports the educational and integration 
facility for women and girls, founded and nurtured 
in MädchenbüroMilena. During the day, families 
with migrant backgrounds are provided language 
classes with childcare. After school, girls are tutored 
one-on-one with sustainability, empowerment and 
participation at the focus.
The holidays are a great time to give back and 
raise awareness about our fellow Frankfurt 
community. Many families are unfamiliar with and 
underequipped to face the cold weather, especially 
during their first winter in Germany. By collecting 
gently worn jackets and winter items, in addition to 
school supplies, hygiene items and non-perishable 
items, we supported the families of MBM in a 
meaningful way. Since the drive in December 2024, 
multiple colleagues have come forward to support 
the MBM. 
Employee volunteer experiences
A big thanks for making this donation drive 
a yearly Christmas ritual. We braved the 
harsh weather to drop off the donations at 
the Madchen Buro, and the effort was well 
worth it.
Priya Sankaranarayanan
Thank you very much for initiating such 
an eternal effort, giving us an opportunity 
to participate in supporting our local 
community.
Rutuja Lele
I found it extremely meaningful to contribute 
to this organization and make a tangible 
impact on people’s lives. Participating gave 
me a sense of fulfillment and strengthened 
connections within the Company. I look 
forward to being part of future initiatives.
Samir Semaan
IRELAND
Clash of the companies
Infosys was a proud sponsor of the Clash of the 
Companies event, Ireland’s leading team-building 
event. This initiative brought together hundreds of 
people from various business sectors with the main 
goal of raising funds for sick children in Ireland. 
BULGARIA
Post Bank Run, Svetulki RUN 
- Charity Runs
Our team in Bulgaria participated in Bulgaria’s 
largest corporate relay, the annual Post Bank Run, 
in June 2024. Later in October, they participated 
in the charity run ‘Svetulki’ RUN (Firefly Run) 
organized by Sofia Mountain Club. Funds were 
raised for two causes: The ‘Eyes of Four Paws’ 
Foundation and the only National Community 
Center for the Blind in Bulgaria.
UKRAINE
Digital transformation program:
Our Digital Transformation Program leverages 
Infosys Springboard for students and educators to 
facilitate interactive, engaging lessons. The program 
includes over 72 Ukrainian language courses, 19 
geography lessons. 20 modules for the school 
principals’ course have been deployed. For teachers, 
topics such as Cybersecurity and Anti-Corruption 
are addressed through specially developed 
courses, aligning seamlessly with Ukraine’s 
national educational platform, All Ukrainian Online. 
Together, these initiatives are building a robust and 
resilient educational foundation for both students 
and teachers.
Digital Learning Centers
Initially focused on creating and renovating five 
Digital Learning Centers (DLCs) in Dnipropetrovsk, 
an Oblast in Eastern Ukraine that receives less 
international aid due to its proximity to the front 
line, our program reached seven centers within 
12 months. These DLCs address the educational 
challenges faced by children in crisis-affected areas 
of Ukraine, making a real difference in their daily 
lives by providing access to quality education and 
a safe learning environment. Notably, one center 
was renovated by an all-female team of contractors, 
showcasing resilience and determination in the face 
of adversity. Launched in September 2024, these 
centers have already served over 1,500 children in 
their first three months of operations. Each center 
is equipped with laptops, high-speed internet, 
multimedia projectors, educational materials, 
security systems, and accessibility features such 
as wheelchair ramps and modified bathrooms. 
Additionally, designated spaces for Mental Health 
and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) provide critical 
support to young learners.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
49  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
CZECH REPUBLIC, BRNO
Blood donation – Infoscions from the Brno DC 
participated in a blood donation drive at our Vlněna 
Business Centre. This event saw a  mix of long-
term donors and first-time participants, all coming 
together for a noble cause. 
Charity Christmas market 
Infosys participated in an event along with 
neighboring companies, a Christmas market, 
where donations from buyers of items at our 
stand were donated to House for Julia, a children's 
hospice in Brno.
APAC region  
Australia and New Zealand
Driving social impact through employee 
volunteering 
Employee volunteering is an integral part of The 
Infosys Way of Life (IWOL), cultivating meaningful 
engagement with vulnerable communities. In 
Australia, employees actively support the St. 
Vincent de Paul Society (Vinnies) in addressing 
homelessness through initiatives such as the CEO 
Sleepout, where EVP and APAC Head of Business 
Andrew Groth slept rough to raise awareness and 
funds. Employees also contributed to The Bottom 
Line, donating essential undergarments to restore 
dignity to those in need, and volunteered at Ozanam 
House, preparing and serving meals to individuals 
experiencing homelessness. These efforts reflect our 
commitment to corporate social responsibility and 
community impact, ensuring tangible support for 
those most in need.
Advancing inclusion through accessibility 
We are in our ninth year of partnership with the 
Australian Disability Network (ADN) and have 
maintained our recognition as a Disability Confident 
recruiter. We marked International Day of Persons 
with Disabilities (IDPWD) by reinforcing our efforts 
to create an equitable environment for all. Our 
approach integrates accessible workplace design, 
inclusive hiring practices, and targeted employee 
training to build awareness and support diverse 
abilities. Infosys Australia and New Zealand continue 
to drive meaningful change, making inclusion a core 
pillar of our ESG journey. 
Building careers through mentorship 
opportunities for People with a Disability
Infosys partners with the Australian Disability 
Network (ADN) on their PACE mentoring program, 
providing mentors for students and young 
professionals with a disability. This initiative 
enhances disability awareness and confidence 
within Infosys while offering job seekers valuable 
professional experience.  
Future Leaders program
In collaboration with Tennis Australia, the program 
is designed to empower emerging talents to lead 
in the digital era, reflecting our commitment to 
sustainable growth and societal impact. The three-
day camp includes a day at Infosys’ state-of-the-art 
Melbourne living lab. Students engage in digital 
experiences, exploring technologies such as the 
metaverse, artificial intelligence, and virtual reality. 
Following the camp, participants attend a Future 
Leaders Day at the Australian Open, featuring 
activities like a tennis clinic, where future leaders 
learn from a Tennis legend. Exploring the dynamic 
‘Infosys Fan Zone,’ an innovative showcase that 
highlights the transformative role technology has, is 
part of the experience. 
Junior Leadership program
Partnering with Table Tennis Victoria, this initiative 
aims to develop leadership and digital skills, along 
with fostering positive community impacts among 
young Australians. By combining the value of sport 
with technology-driven learning, this program 
equips the next generation with the tools they need 
to thrive in an evolving digital world. Participants 
engage in mentorship, hands-on workshops, and 
access Infosys Springboard, equipping them with 
leadership skills, innovation, and inclusion. The 
program culminates in an immersive experience 
where young leaders apply their skills in real-world 
settings, building confidence and resilience. 
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
50  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
Women’s health and families 
As part of the Breast Cancer Awareness month 
in October 2024, multiple sessions on women’s 
health for staff and clients to elevate women’s 
health knowledge were conducted, providing 
information on Infosys’ policies and people practice 
supporting employee wellbeing. To recognize 
the power of the technology industry and our 
community to advance meaningful women’s health 
changes and awareness we came together for 
#Tech in pink. Employees participated in events to 
promote cancer research, prevention, screening, 
and advocacy. Using our platforms to amplify 
awareness, we continue to foster a culture of 
awareness and action.  
Culture 
Infosys teams in New Zealand, Canberra, Sydney, 
Melbourne, Japan, China and Singapore came 
together to celebrate Diwali and Christmas with joy, 
positivity, and a sense of togetherness. From vibrant 
decorations to fun-filled activities, diverse teams 
shared their most significant cultural celebrations 
with colleagues. 
Spreading festive cheer: Christmas 
celebrations 
The Infosys offices across Australia and New 
Zealand celebrated the festive season with joy, 
togetherness, and giving back. From festive 
decorations and team gatherings to Secret Santa, 
charity drives, and volunteering, employees came 
together to spread cheer both in the workplace 
and the community. Highlights included 
supporting local charities with donations and 
volunteering.   
Empowering innovation and collaboration 
through open data 
As part of our commitment to fostering digital 
skills and innovation, Infosys played a leading role 
in GovHack 2024, the largest open data hackathon 
in the southern hemisphere. Talent from across 
Australia and New Zealand participates in leveraging 
open data and digital technology to help address 
the biggest problems that we face as a community 
in the region.   
Driving social impact through employee 
volunteering 
Through our employee volunteering program teams 
have been dedicating their time to Ozanam House, 
a vital community service that provides meals, 
shelter, and support to individuals experiencing 
homelessness. Our volunteers have been actively 
involved in meal preparation and service, ensuring 
those in need receive nutritious food in a safe and 
welcoming environment. By engaging with Ozanam 
House, Infosys employees are not only giving back 
but also deepening their understanding of the 
challenges faced by vulnerable communities. 
Women’s equity and inclusion   
International Women’s Day (IWD), March 2024: 
#Inspireinclusion was a celebration with Infosys 
staff and clients who came together in multiple 
APAC locations. Over 1500 staff and key regional 
clients discussed ways to work together to ‘Spot and 
stop workplace bias’, support women in leadership 
and achieve greater gender equality.  Recognizing 
the importance of female talent development, a 
selection of women participated in a 6-month APAC 
female leadership program called Accelerate Her 
Achievement. The program included a focus on 
personal branding training and tailored mentoring. 
Women across the APAC region participated in a 
global women’s leadership initiative called OrbitNext 
to develop more women into senior roles.  Infosys 
policies and programs were recognized by Work180 
in Australia, a targeted women’s recruitment portal. 
SINGAPORE 
Social entrepreneurship and community 
leadership development 
As an extension of its commitment to supporting 
the local regional community, Infosys Singapore 
staff partnered with INCLUS, the leading regional 
provider of disability services, to participate 
in a mentoring program for people with slight 
disabilities to help them integrate into business and 
job opportunities. Infosys participated in the Youth 
for Causes (YFC) event that was started in 2003 by 
the YMCA of Singapore. The program is a catalyst to 
promote social entrepreneurship and community 
leadership development among Singapore youth 
aged between 15 to 25. 
JAPAN 
Environment, sustainability and skills 
development
A significant reduction in the carbon footprint 
was achieved by moving to a paperless process 
for recruitment selection and induction reducing 
our carbon footprint.  Japan continues its focus 
on people skills development and AI skills 
retraining to help our High-Tech industry clients 
in Japan transformation objectives. Our ongoing 
commitment to employee health and wellness and 
supporting people with disabilities has helped us 
focus on supporting the community and social 
justice for all. 
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
51  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
CHINA
SPRING is an employee-led team that supports 
various philanthropic activities such as donation 
drives for blood, books and computers.
SPRING - Giving Tree Program: Since 2009 to 
2024, SPRING team and Infosys China employees 
have supported the Community Center, 
Shanghai (CCS) in partnership with Shanghai 
Charity Foundation (SCF) Giving Tree charity 
program. Infosys China assisted 1,837 migrant 
/ underprivileged students in need by donated 
Giving Tree bags, filled with age and gender-
appropriate winter clothes and school supplies.
SPRING – old computer donation program
Since 2008 to Jan of 2025, SPRING team get support 
from Infosys China leadership, CCD, FAC team, 
volunteers, Warm Current of CSWEF (China Social 
Welfare Foundation) and express companies, 
arranged 6 old computers donation programs, 
total donated 1485 computers to 62 schools, 
helping 22077 students and teachers to use these 
computers at Shanghai, Qinghai, Gansu, Shanxi, 
Henan, Anhui, Hubai, Hunan, Jiangxi, Chongqing, 
Sichuan, Guizhou, Yunnan, Guangxi, Guangdong 15 
provinces in China.
Green Ambassador | Hangzhou DC
The Infosys Hangzhou team and their families 
participated in a sustainability effort to clean a 
section of the Jiuxi stream and Longjing mountain. 
The 8-km-long hiking took about four hours. The 
team collected more than 5 bags of white trash and 
received huge appreciation from the locals.
commitment to Environmental, Social and 
governance practices with participation of over 
50 students from multiple International Schools.  
Participants of the program were provided with 
insights into the IT career paths, introduction to 
springboard learning platform and engaged with 
hands-on experience. In the second half of the 
program, participants gathered to assemble Legos 
and mechanical components to build functioning 
robots. This activity encouraged creativity, teamwork 
and deeper understanding of engineering concepts.
World Water Day | Shanghai DC
On account of World Water Day, Shanghai DC HSE 
team conducted a Coloring activity of ‘Your Peaceful 
Water Mandala’. Several employees participated.
Living Labs in China 
Infosys China launched its Living Labs in Shanghai, 
China in 2019.  The Living Labs is designed to help 
advance ESG and people-centric innovation in 
China region. It is a platform that helps us establish 
Infosys as an innovation partner with our clients and 
prospects. Our key showcases in China Living Labs 
include AI Demo, Smart farm, Cyber Security Game, 
ATP/AO Tennis, Personalized Smart Videos and Data 
Center Digital Twin.
Catch Them Young
Catch Them Young was held for the very first time 
in Shanghai DC in December 2024, showcasing 
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
52  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
Our employee value proposition 
We are a people-first Company. Our success is built on the belief that when our people thrive, so does our organization and the communities 
we serve. Our commitment to human capital development is anchored in our Employee Value Proposition (EVP), which is centered around 
three core pillars:
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Recognized as a ‘Global Top 
Employer 2025’ across 4 
regions and 22 countries
The Infosys Way of Life (IWOL)
While our EVP defines what we stand for, our culture 
defines how we live it. It is not just about what we 
do, but why we exist, shaping us into who we are 
today. For over 40 years, our values, excellence, 
collaboration, and most importantly, our people 
We prioritize a culture of 
caring for our employees, 
addressing their overall needs, 
and fostering an environment 
where empathy prevails.
Our principles—Client Value, Leadership 
by Example, Integrity and Transparency, 
Fairness and Excellence—guide our 
behavior and permeate everything we 
do, upheld by each one of us.
We come together as one Infosys, 
leveraging our collective strengths 
to navigate our next steps
We enable our people 
to grow professionally 
and enrich their skills 
to stay future-ready.
We are committed to building and sustaining 
an inclusive and equal opportunity workplace, 
with a vision of taking everyone forward.
CARE
C-LIFE
COLLABORATION
LEARNING
INCLUSIVITY
Together, these pillars shape a workplace where people are inspired, enabled, and valued, 
ensuring our human capital continues to be a cornerstone of sustainable growth and impact.
We are committed to 
continuous learning and 
career development. 
Our people are 
empowered to expand 
their skills, embrace 
new challenges, and 
shape a future of shared 
progress
At Infosys, you shape 
a meaningful career 
through impactful 
work, supported by 
passionate teams that 
help you find purpose 
and drive change 
to make a tangible 
impact
The future of work, powered by people
We foster a creative, 
dynamic, inclusive, and 
rewarding environment 
where collaboration thrives. 
At Infosys, every journey is 
supported by a culture that 
values diversity, encourages 
innovation, and celebrates 
shared success
Culture Index - 85%
have moulded our unique culture. Care | C-LIFE | 
Collaboration | Inclusivity | Learning.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
53  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
Designing world-class employee experiences 
We strive to create a world-class employee experience by designing consistent best-in-class policies, processes, programs, and systems, focusing on creating ‘Experience by 
Design’ while keeping employees at the core of whatever we do. We gather employee feedback using robust listening mechanisms, built in through the employee life cycle 
to help improve our offerings and create positive memorable moments that matter using technology. Some of our interventions across the employee life cycle include.
InfyMe 
Our mobile-first, self-service platform integrates over 200 service touchpoints into a single, intuitive interface. InfyMe is designed to be seamlessly contextual, aiding 
networking and collaboration among our employees anytime, anywhere. We continue to enrich our InfyMe app with more services that enable teams to operate, 
connect, collaborate easily, particularly in the hybrid work model. 
AI in employee experience  
At Infosys, we recognize that each employee 
is unique, and so should be their journey 
within the organization. In today’s digital-
first world, we are harnessing the power of 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) to deliver personalized 
experiences at scale. In line with this, we 
are reimagining the employee experience 
by integrating AI across the entire talent 
lifecycle - from recruitment and onboarding 
to performance management and continuous 
learning till offboarding. Our AI-powered 
recruitment capabilities streamline candidate 
screening, dynamically match talent with 
open roles, and enable intelligent interview 
scheduling. Innovations like facial recognition 
and compliance-driven checks enhance security 
and integrity in the hiring process. We have also 
introduced intelligent job recommendation 
features on our career platforms, helping 
candidates discover relevant opportunities 
based on their unique skills and experience.
For new joinees, in onboarding, initiatives 
such as Infosys Immerse in the metaverse, 
AI-powered assistants, and smart identity 
verification tools are shaping seamless, 
engaging entry experiences. Employees benefit 
from AI-driven assistants like NAVI, which 
handle queries, support transactions, and offer 
tailored policy guidance, reducing reliance on 
helpdesks while enhancing personalization. 
Some of our NAVI powered interventions, we 
have already implemented at Infosys are:
• Data Assist: This AI assistant can be used 
to query data related to Leave, Attendance, 
Allocation, Assets, Confirmation, Master data 
etc., of self and the team. It avoids the need to 
go to multiple systems. Data can be queried 
in natural language making it easy for the 
manager.
• Policy Advisor: Revolutionizing the way, 
employees interact with HR for various 
services. For instance, the AI Assistant will 
respond to employee queries by interpreting 
policy documents and personalize interactions 
based on an individual employee. The Navi 
orchestrator merges multiple domain advisors 
into a single interface, routing employee 
queries to the appropriate advisors. The 
advanced AI algorithm personalizes responses 
based on employee profiles, ensuring program 
effectiveness. This will in turn help reduce 
queries going to our helpdesk and directly to 
HR as well.
• Moments That Matter (MTM): Every 
employee has significant moments that 
create substantial impact on their overall 
satisfaction and well-being, during their 
organizational experience. MTM has been 
ideated to become a celebration platform 
which will be integrated into all celebrations, 
small or big, throughout the employee life 
cycle. Smart alerts inform employees on 
upcoming moments that matter in their team 
and they can use AI to generate cards and 
messages to their colleagues and teams. 
For managers and leaders, AI tools enable intuitive 
access to data, proactive nudges, and insights that 
support informed, empathetic decision-making. 
Our AI-driven pulse analysis also empowers 
continuous listening, helping us identify employee 
sentiment and act early to enhance well-being and 
engagement.
In learning and development, we are deploying 
generative AI to deliver personalized learning paths, 
simulate real-world scenarios, and assist in content 
creation. AI companions on our learning platform 
Lex, such as Zoiee and SynthAIz, provide intelligent 
tutoring, summarization, and contextual learning 
support. These innovations ensure every employee 
receives guidance aligned to their goals, skill levels, 
and preferred learning styles. From automated 
offboarding to retention analysis, AI also supports 
thoughtful transitions while maintaining a human 
touch. Our vision remains clear: to responsibly use 
AI not as a replacement, but as a powerful enabler 
enhancing personalization, improving operational 
agility, and reinforcing our commitment to a 
people-first, future-ready workplace.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
54  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
Celebrating and rewarding excellence
RISE our rewards and recognition program fosters 
and celebrates a performance-driven culture 
through leveraging an integrated digital platform 
for an elevated and enhanced experience. 
• Gracias is our appreciation portal, enabling 
employees to easily express and show their 
gratitude and appreciation to fellow colleagues. 
• Insta Awards empowers managers to recognize 
their teams “Instantly”, in real time. 
• Unit / GEO/ Account / DC Rise Awards, ACE 
Awards, Kudos & Glory Awards celebrate a high-
performance work culture through quarterly / 
half-yearly recognition across units, accounts & 
GEOs. 
• Wow Awards are discretionary recognition awards 
given by leaders to acknowledge outstanding 
contributions to the account or unit.
• PM Elite+ are quarterly awards with an objective 
to recognize “Best Managed Projects” from each 
service line and further identifying the “Top 
Project Management Talent” among them. 
• Leadership by Example Award acknowledges and 
celebrates leaders who demonstrate exemplary 
leadership impacting client delight, Operational 
positive impact on delivering client efficiency, and 
high team engagement. 
• Celebrating engagement through the Managers 
with Great Teams Awards, People Health 
Champions Awards, Maximus Awards, BTN 
Awards, and Best Manager Awards, recognizing 
those who foster positive team environments.
Key initiatives
InfyTribes
At Infosys, we believe in a balanced approach 
to life. We are not just about work; we are about 
play too. Across the globe, we have vibrant 
communities known as InfyTribes, where Infoscions 
come together to pursue their passions. Whether 
it's sports, arts, dance, music, AI, movies, or 
photography, our InfyTribes provide a platform 
for our people to connect, collaborate, and thrive 
in their interests. Conceptualized as a sustainable 
community ecosystem, InfyTribes, spread across  
11 countries, 20K+ members, 100K+ followers have 
probably become one of the biggest innovations in 
the people space, with a potential to expand and 
grow more resulting in direct impact of employee 
satisfaction.
Wellbeing, care & communities
At Infosys, well-being is a core commitment, 
fostering a holistic and psychologically safe 
workplace where employees thrive. Our IWOL 
culture emphasizes care, creating positive 
perceptions and constructive conditions for 
Infynite Bonds
This initiative was launched to enhance social 
capital in the workplace by fostering friendships 
among colleagues. The goal is twofold: to promote 
connectedness and to encourage the formation of 
new bonds within the workplace.
Infyusion
This innovative program brings together finalists 
from various segments of sports and culture, creating 
unparalleled engagement and fostering a sense of 
community. With participation from 20 Development 
Centers (DCs), over 15,000 employees, and more than 
350,000 social media views, INFYusion has made a 
significant impact. In its first edition, the initiative 
successfully connected around 75,000 Infoscions, 
showcasing the power of collective engagement and 
the vibrant culture at Infosys.
Holistic Wellness @Infosys
employees to reach their full potential. Our 
award-winning Health Assessment and Lifestyle 
Enrichment (HALE) program, a highly engaged non-
monetary benefit, drives our wellness efforts. Built 
on four pillars—Physical, Emotional, Social well-
being, and Safety—our initiatives are co-created 
with teams, business units, and external partners to 
meet diverse needs.
These initiatives, designed based on employee 
feedback and research, ensure our employees feel 
heard, valued, and supported. By integrating these 
programs, we aim to enhance employee well-
being and drive organizational success through a 
healthier, more engaged, and resilient workforce.
A robust Health and Safety Management system at 
Infosys has enabled us achieve certification to ISO 
45001:2018 standards across all India locations, 
including Infosys Limited and its subsidiaries, in line 
with our HSE strategy.  Read more.
InfyTribes: Nurturing Passions, Building Communities across our Development centers
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
55  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
Infosys Alumni Meets
For the first time, we have organized events to 
connect and meet with our Infy alumni at our 
Development Centers (DCs). These alumni meets 
have seen a remarkable turnout, with nearly 8,000 
alumni participating in around 10 events across 
various DCs.
Petit Infoscion
A special celebration dedicated to the children of 
Infoscions serving as a dynamic showcase for a 
variety of talents, deeply embedding the culture 
and essence of being an Infoscion. Each year it 
unfolds around a unique theme, ensuring our 
Petit Infoscions enjoy a memorable day filled with 
fun games, activities, delicious treats, rewards, 
Career growth and learning avenues 
Learning and Career
LnC portal is a one-stop solution for employees' 
learning and career needs. Over the past year, it was 
redesigned to offer a more personalized experience, 
featuring the new Career Canvas. This consolidates 
multiple career avenues—IJPs, projects, and bridge 
programs—into one view, helping employees 
identify next-role possibilities, assess skill gaps, and 
receive personalized learning recommendations. 
65% to 70% of open positions are filled through IJPs 
facilitating growth for employees. 
Capability Quotient (CQ)
Capability Quotient is a comprehensive framework 
that integrates technology skills, domain skills, 
foundational skills, and social skills to enable 
employees’ holistic development. This enhanced 
skills framework fosters adaptability and ensures a 
sustainable competitiveness in a rapidly evolving 
landscape. Employees can increase their CQ by 
gaining knowledge, building experience and 
expertise, track their skill development journey 
and get feedback on these skills through learning 
resources, endorsements, and manager evaluations. 
Employees with a higher CQ have greater access to 
new opportunities and interesting projects. CQ is 
planned to be rolled out, effective July 1, 2025. 
The Platinum Club
The club is a niche experience created for our top 
performers. Members of this club are selected with 
great rigor and objectivity through a two-pronged 
approach of high performance and high capabilities 
(measured through consistent ratings and high DQ). 
The program ensures that there are diverse career 
experiences, faster growth trajectory, differentiated 
rewards and higher visibility for those who are 
identified as platinum club members.
Great Managers, Great Teams
The Infosys Great Manager Program
Now in its third year, the Infosys Great 
Manager Program is designed to nurture 
future-ready leadership. Delivered in 
collaboration with Cornell University, this 
fully digital, self-paced learning journey 
builds core managerial competencies 
such as business acumen, a digital-first 
mindset, people leadership, and operational 
excellence. Through concise and impactful 
modules from eCornell, managers are 
empowered to lead with insight, agility, and 
purpose.
The Manager Code
To guide and anchor our managerial 
culture, we introduced the Manager’s 
Code, a behavioral blueprint for people 
management at Infosys. It serves as a clear 
reference point for all managers, aligning 
expectations and promoting consistent 
leadership behaviors across the organization.
Recognizing Managerial Excellence
We also celebrate our best managers 
across the organization every quarter. 
These recognitions are based on careful 
consideration of multiple data points, 
including performance metrics, employee 
satisfaction scores, employee feedback, 
people connect initiatives, and individual 
learning journeys. This holistic evaluation 
ensures we spotlight managers who 
consistently demonstrate excellence in both 
results and people leadership.
Our InfyCares team volunteering together to make a difference
recognition and more. This year, we achieved a 
record-breaking footfall of over 100,000 across 20 
DCs, saw a 33% increase in Petits to over 31,000, and 
set a World Record in the Wonder Book of Records.
InfyCares
This initiative was strategized to bring employee 
volunteerism to the forefront, and it has received 
a resounding response from teams across our 
Development Centers (DCs). InfyCares has achieved 
over 1,30,000 volunteering hours in the past year, 
surpassing our initial commitment of 75,000 hours. 
With more than 34,000 volunteers across 21 DCs, 
our CSR programs are now an integral part of the 
InfyCares system, providing a consolidated view of 
our collective volunteering efforts.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
56  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
The future is led from within
Infosys Leadership Institute 
With AI playing a pivotal role in the next phase 
of transformation of organizations, the Infosys 
Leadership Institute (ILI) partnered with Kellogg 
to bring their highly acclaimed program on AI 
Applications of Growth to all its leaders. In FY25, 
over 1000 senior leaders of Infosys completed 
this certification program and most of them also 
participated in a live discussion with the author of 
this course, Prof. Mohanbir Sawhney. This includes 
about 250 women leaders, with many of them also 
working on AI related projects and initiatives. 
ILI strengthened the succession program by 
broadening its focus to key roles in business 
and enabling functions, and creating highly 
personalized development programs for the 
incumbents and successors in organizational 
critical positions. The highly successful succession-
enabling Constellation program aimed at high 
potential emerging leaders, was expanded and 
paired with a 10-month curated program with 
Oxford University. The Constellation leaders 
also commenced work on cross-functional, 
strategic organizational projects, to bolster their 
enterprise leadership,   thus preparing them for 
senior leadership positions. Broader leadership 
development and engagement continue with 
signature programs like the 10-month Enterprise 
Leadership program in partnership thus preparing 
them for senior leadership positions.Broader 
leadership development and engagement with 
multiple universities including Kellogg, Tuck, NUS, 
and the 6-month long Executive Presence and 
Presentation program in partnership with The 
Economist. More than 2000 one-on-one leadership 
advisory discussions were completed by ILI with 
leaders, focused on their leadership development 
plan. With more than 97% leaders completing 
a significant development intervention, Infosys 
leaders invested 10,500+ leadership learning days 
equivalent on their development.
Leadership diversity continues to be important 
for Infosys and the acclaimed ILI #IamtheFuture 
program saw more than 200 women leaders 
completing a development program addressing 
critical and differentiating competencies needed 
for success and growth. About 100 women 
leaders completed a program with Stanford on 
Executive Communication, supported by one-
on-one coaching from a global communications 
firm. Career conversations were completed for 
critical and high-potential women leaders across 
segments and delivery, and 200+ women leaders 
completed a development coaching conversation 
with internal leadership advisors. 
Our relentless focus on leadership development 
and engagement continues to set us up well for 
the future.
Employee satisfaction
Infosys has a robust mechanism to gauge 
employee sentiments and feedback through its 
Pulse survey. This tool collects ongoing and real-
time feedback from employees anonymously on 
key organization-wide themes that shape their 
experience, including work learning and careers 
through a micro survey every quarter.We also poll 
our employees on select tenure-based milestones 
and specific events. This cumulative understanding 
of employee perception, and feedback from actual 
events and milestones have strengthened our 
sensing architecture to obtain richer insights of 
employee experiences. To drive change across 
the organization, all managers have access to a 
real-time customized dashboard with feedback 
from their respective teams, which enables them 
to engage with their teams better and address any 
concerns. This dashboard has multiple views and 
advanced analytics such as heatmaps, trendlines, 
and sentiment analytics to enable the managers to 
prioritize focus areas according to their teams. 
 
This comprehensive ESAT result is based on 
feedback gathered across 22 distinct themes, with 
high scores in key areas such as Job Satisfaction 
(77%), Purpose (85%), Happiness- Sense of 
Connectedness (87%) & Well-being Support (84%), 
Career & Learning (84%) and Innovation(80%). 
 
The company's commitment to acting on feedback 
is evident in the 82% Employee Listening score. 
This high score indicates that employees feel 
their feedback is not only valued but also leads to 
meaningful action, fostering a culture of trust and 
continuous improvement. 
 
Attrition score remains low at 14% when compared 
to the pre-COVID period (18%).
Employee satisfaction
(ESAT) for FY25: 77%
Performance management
Our Performance Management Process is a 
cornerstone of our talent strategy, built on the 
principles of rewarding performance, fostering a 
culture of continuous development, and skill-
based growth. In alignment with our vision 
of becoming a Skill-Driven Organization, the 
performance management process now integrates 
skill identification and skill proficiency assessment 
as core components of both goal setting and 
performance evaluation. These inputs form the 
basis for personalized skill journeys and individual 
development plans, ensuring that each employee 
is equipped to grow in line with both personal 
aspirations and organizational needs.  
Goal setting within our process follows the SMART 
framework and is cascaded top-down to ensure 
alignment with organizational and team objectives. 
The process encourages a balance between 
individual and team goals, fostering collaboration 
and shared accountability. 
Evaluation is supported by a multi-level approval 
workflow involving the appraiser (manager), 
reviewer (manager’s manager), and approving 
authority (Department/Function Head). Additionally, 
we have introduced many features to aid 
360-degree feedback. 
Consultant evaluation - where specific goals can 
be assessed by cross-functional managers reflecting 
workforce mobility and dynamic role structure @
Infosys. 
Delegate manager evaluation - which allows 
supervisors closely working with employees to 
provide first-level feedback. 
The process is tailored to different organizational 
levels, with an annual cycle for Individual 
Contributors (ICs) and First-Level People Managers. 
To further support the IC stream, we have 
institutionalized a Quarterly Check-ins program 
that promotes ongoing dialogue around skill 
development, aspiration management, goal 
progress, and employee engagement. A Bi-annual 
cycle for Middle Managers enabling agile and 
responsive performance and talent management 
interventions. The annual cycle for Senior Leaders is 
designed to provide the necessary time horizon for 
these leaders to execute their strategic long-term 
vision and deliver sustained outcomes. 
To ensure timely and unbiased evaluations, 
the system supports rolling goal assessments 
throughout the year, particularly aligned with 
project closures. This helps mitigate recency bias 
and ensures that performance is evaluated in real-
time. For Middle Managers and Senior Leaders, most 
goals are automated, with actuals auto fetched from 
internal systems. This automation enhances data 
integrity and minimizes human error.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
57  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
Upholding values and rights
At Infosys, purposeful work begins with a foundation of integrity. We believe that for people to truly find 
meaning in what they do, they must first feel safe, respected, and valued. Upholding dignity, fairness, and 
trust in every interaction is not just a responsibility, it is essential to enabling purpose, building belonging and 
sustaining a culture where every individual can thrive.
Resolution hubs
Infosys is committed to providing a safe and positive 
work environment. In keeping with this philosophy, 
the organization envisages an open-door policy 
and encourages a culture of “speak up”. Employees 
also have access to several forums where they can 
highlight matters or concerns faced at the workplace 
for effective remediation. This is achieved through 
a well-established and robust grievance resolution 
mechanism comprising resolution hubs. Resolution 
hubs adhere to the principles of natural justice, 
confidentiality, sensitivity, non-retaliation and 
fairness, while addressing concerns. The concerns are 
handled objectively while ensuring timely action and 
closure. In matters that entail a detailed investigation, 
the process ensures fairness for all involved, with 
an opportunity to be heard, present facts and any 
material evidence before a neutral panel.
HEAR
Infosys has a robust grievance redressal forum called 
HEAR (Hearing Employees And Resolving) fostering 
healthy employee relations and a positive work 
environment by giving our employees a neutral 
platform ‘to be heard’ and building the culture of 
‘speak up’. Employees can raise a complaint on the 
HEAR webapp or InfyMe mobile application or write 
to HEAR@infosys.com. HEAR adopts a decentralized 
model and addresses employee concerns in a 
structured manner with appellate forums for 
workplace grievances that have not been duly heard 
at the preliminary level by the Managers (or) line HR.
ASHI
The Company’s assurance to its employees of 
providing a harassment-free workplace is reflected 
in our key initiative, ASHI (Anti-Sexual Harassment 
Initiative). As per the Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
Act in India, the Company has constituted Internal 
Committees (IC) in all the development centers with 
the ambit of the regulatory jurisdiction, for redressal 
of sexual harassment matters reported by women 
employees. We also have a strong governance 
mechanism in the form of GRB (Grievance Redressal 
Body) to define, interpret and implement Company’s 
policy on prevention of sexual harassment at the 
workplace. GRB consists of external members, 
internal senior members, and the Investigative 
Council. Here, we follow a gender-neutral approach in 
redressal of all such complaints. Complaints are taken 
up for a formal redressal process in line with the POSH 
Act and the Company’s policy on anti-harassment as 
applicable. The reports on ASHI grievances can be 
shared to GRB@infosys.com and employees can also 
report complaints on the ASHI webapp or InfyMe 
mobile application.
Extending the initiative to contract staff
Our commitment to a positive and safe working 
environment is not restricted only to our employees, 
but also third parties, who provide services in our 
campuses. We conduct refresher sessions for such 
third-party employees to reinforce the message. 
These sessions are covered in nine vernacular 
languages in India currently. Emergency / safety 
cards with important contact numbers are also 
handed over to all Infosys employees and employees 
of such third parties. All our security personnel are 
trained in human rights policies and procedures.
Whistleblower Policy
The Company has formulated the Whistleblower 
Policy in line with the mandated regulatory 
requirements – Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), 2002 
& Companies Act, 2013 – which mandates listed 
companies to establish a “vigil mechanism” for 
reporting genuine concerns.
The forum is predominantly for the receipt, retention 
and treatment of complaints regarding matters 
of probable discrepancies in accounting, internal 
accounting controls or auditing, and also enables 
anonymous reporting by employees. While the 
Whistleblower Policy and the forum is administered 
and managed by the Office of Integrity and 
Compliance, complaints (anonymous or otherwise) 
pertaining to deviations in workplace policies / 
processes involving employees are reviewed in 
tandem by the Employee Relations Department.
Human Rights
Some of our salient human rights topics are:
   Grievance redressal
•  Open-door policy
•  Robust grievance 
resolution mechanism
    Health and safety
•  Robust Health, Safety 
and Environmental 
Management System 
(HSEMS), Ozone
    Data privacy
•  Ensures privacy of  
employees, candidates,  
visitors, customers, and  
other stakeholders,  
according to global  
applicable data privacy regulations
•  Comprehensive framework for Privacy 
Information Management System (PIMS)
    Workplace diversity
•  Code of Conduct and Ethics 
•  An equal opportunity 
workplace
•  Equal pay for equal work
•  Free of discrimination
    Freedom of association
•  Freedom to associate  
through internal employee 
resource groups
•  Seek representation
•  Bargain or not bargain 
collectively
Transition assistance: We provide employees opportunities to upgrade their skills as part of transition assistance to 
facilitate their continued employability and the management of career  endings resulting from termination of employment.
The Employee Career Support  program: Retirement Planning spans a portfolio of services including consultations from 
retirement specialists, strategic financial planning, retirement focused roadmap and resources, careers workshops, and 
access to networking groups dedicated to retirement options.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
58  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Facilitating Employee Wellness and Experience
Performance on Environmental Goals
Enabling Digital Talent at Scale
Tech for Good
Nurturing Workplace Inclusivity
Energizing Local Communities
•  Infosys has been recognized among LinkedIn’s 
Top Companies 2025 in India, USA, and Canada.
•  Infosys was awarded the Global Top  
Employer 2025 certification in 22 countries 
across Asia Pacific, Europe, the Middle East, 
and North America.
•  Infosys has been recognized as the largest IT 
employer in Karnataka at the Invest Karnataka 
2025 Summit.
•  Winners of NHRD Welcon 2024 for  
Holistic Wellness
•  ATD Best of the Best list for 2025 – marking it the 
12th time we have received this esteemed award.
•  Infosys Wingspan was honored with the 
Gold Award for Best Advance in Learning 
Management Technology (LMT) and a Bronze 
in the "Best Corporate Learning University" 
category in the Brandon Hall Technology 
Excellence Awards 2024.
•  People Business: Infosys has secured a spot on 
the prestigious “Company with Great Managers 
2024” list in India, 5th time in a row.
•  Three Managers were featured in the 100 Great 
People Manager Studies 2024, conducted by 
the Great Manager Institute in association with 
Economic Times.
•  Infosys won the Company with Great Managers 
Award 2024 by People Business for the 5th 
consecutive year. Three Infosys Managers won 
the Great Manager Awards, 2024.
•  Certificate of Distinction for Record-Breaking 
Employee and Family Volunteering by Wonder 
Book of Records, 2025
Return to office and hybrid work model
At Infosys, we follow a flexible hybrid work model. Our 
objective is to build and retain social capital among 
employees that will help enhance collaboration, 
innovation, productivity, and self-development in 
a hybrid workplace. To offer further flexibility to 
employees, we have also opened offices closer to where 
our employees are based.
In the recent past, we commenced operations at 
our new centers in Indore, Nagpur, Hubballi, Vizag, 
Coimbatore, Kolkata, Mumbai, and Noida, in India.
Coimbatore DC Phase 2, Infosys campus inauguration
Kolkata DC, Infosys campus inauguration
Awards and recognitions
Human Rights Assessment 
Human Rights is an important area of focus in the 
annual integrated assessments conducted by the 
internal Corporate Certifications and Audits Team 
(CCAT).  The assessment references GRI, SA8000, 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and 
the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(BRSR).  In FY 2025, over 80% of our global operations 
underwent the assessment.  All locations have 
mitigation and remediation plans in place. While the  
assessment reveals there are no significant deviations 
and gaps in the implementation of human rights 
practices, there are some improvement areas that have 
been identified and acted upon.
Topics 
Finding  
Response 
Training and 
awareness
There is an 
opportunity to 
further strengthen 
training and 
awareness of human 
rights-related topics 
among employees 
Training on Human 
Right related topics 
has been integrated 
into the mandatory 
Smart Awareness 
Quiz (SAQ) & Tutorials 
for employees 
Policy Review
While the company 
has a human rights 
policy , the periodic 
review of the policy in 
line with the changing 
eco system to be put 
in place
The policy has 
been reviewed, 
and appropriate 
amendments have 
been made.  A 
periodic cadence to 
review the policy  has 
been institutionalized 
Human Rights 
governance in 
supply chain
There is a scope 
to further 
strengthen human 
rights practices 
and  associated 
compliances in 
the supply chain 
Infosys launched a 
dedicated online 
ESG learning channel 
for its suppliers on 
Infosys WINGSPAN. 
The portal includes 
best practices and 
provides learners 
an opportunity to 
discuss, ideate, and 
engage on ESG 
topics including 
human rights  
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
59  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Climate Change
Water
Waste
Performance on Environmental Goals
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  |  59
Serve the interests of all our 
stakeholders by leading through
our core values
We set standards on how to act right and 
do more. We lead the way with respect 
and vigor in our solutions, in our corporate 
policies, throughout our value chain and
across the industry.
Governance
Vision
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
60  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Performance on Governance Goals
Material Topics
Progress in Fiscal 2025
Ambitions
Information 
management
•  Infosys positioned as a Leader in the ISG Provider Lens™
•  Being recognized as industry leader in our 
information security practices
Data privacy
•  First India-headquartered Company to receive Binding Corporate 
Rules (BCR) approval from EU data protection authorities
•  Adopting leading data privacy standards across 
all global operations
Corporate 
governance
•  Our Board is represented by 22.22% women leaders and 44.44% foreign 
nationals with expertise in the domains of finance, global business, 
cybersecurity, information technology, governance, sustainability, ESG, sales 
and marketing, delivery, risk management, mergers and acquisitions
•  273 suppliers engaged to enhance their climate performance
•  Conducted ESG assessment of top 800+ suppliers representing ~85% of 
total spend
•  Ethisphere recognized Infosys among 2025 World’s Most Ethical Companies® 
for the fifth consecutive year
•  We continue to lead on global ESG assessments
•  Bringing the interests of all stakeholders to the fore 
through our empowered, diverse, and inclusive Board 
 
•  Building sustainable and responsible supply chains 
 
•  Ensuring robust compliance and integrity practices 
•  Engaging with stakeholders through various channels 
and earning trust through transparent communication
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
61  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
Our corporate governance reflects our value systems, culture, policies, and relationships with our stakeholders. Integrity and transparency lie at 
the core of our corporate governance to ensure sound practice and performance that, in turn, help us gain and retain the trust of our stakeholders. 
We practice the highest level of corporate governance across all our business functions. A strong, independent, and diverse Board leadership 
nurtures and sustains effective corporate governance throughout the corporation. Independent Board committees review and formulate 
industry-leading governance practices. Read more in the Corporate governance report that is part of the Infosys Integrated Annual Report.
Read the Infosys Board Diversity Policy
The composition of our Board as on March 31, 2025
Read more
ESG Governance 
In October 2020, we launched our ESG Vision 
2030. Our focus has been steadfast on leveraging 
technology to battle climate change, conserve 
water and manage waste. On the social front, 
our emphasis has been on the development of 
people, especially around digital skilling, improving 
diversity and inclusion, facilitating employee 
wellness and experience, delivering technology for 
social good and energizing the communities we 
live and work in. We have also redoubled efforts to 
serve the interests of all our stakeholders by leading 
22.22% women leaders and 44.44% 
foreign nationals with expertise 
across domains on the Board
Read more in our Corporate Governance Report. 
Size and composition of the Board
through our core values and setting benchmarks in 
corporate governance.
Our Board instituted an ESG Committee on April 
14, 2021, to discharge its responsibility to oversee 
matters related to Infosys group-wide ESG initiatives, 
priorities, and leading ESG practices. The ESG 
Committee reports to the Board and meets every 
quarter. The ESG Council executes the programs 
and plans of the ESG Committee to achieve the 
ambitions outlined in Infosys' ESG vision 2030.
Board diversity
Our Board is represented by 22.22% women leaders and 44.44% foreign nationals with expertise in the domains of finance, 
global business, cybersecurity, information technology, governance, sustainability, ESG, sales and marketing, delivery, risk 
management, mergers and acquisitions.
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
62  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
has a conflict of interest. The same is addressed in 
accordance with policies of the Company. 
We have a structured governance mechanism to 
communicate critical concerns of stakeholders to 
the highest governing body, for review and due 
action. A multi-layer governance structure is in 
place to monitor and report risk and risk mitigation 
activities, including those of ESG. 
Our Enterprise Risk Management framework 
encompasses all the Company’s risks – strategy 
and strategy execution; operational; and legal and 
compliance risks. Any of these categories can have 
internal or external dimensions. The systematic 
and proactive identification of risks, and mitigation 
thereof, enables our organization to boost 
performance with effective and timely decision-
making. Strategic decisions are taken after careful 
consideration of primary risks, secondary risks, 
consequential risks and residual risks.
The risk management committee assists the Board 
in fulfilling its corporate governance oversight 
responsibilities with regard to the identification, 
evaluation and mitigation of strategic, operational, 
and external environment risks. A robust complaints 
management system ensures that all complaints are 
addressed effectively.  
Read more.
Stakeholder engagement is delegated to identified 
heads of departments and feedback from these 
engagements are discussed through a review of 
performance on our ESG ambitions as a part of the 
quarterly ESG Committee meetings. 
Our grievance redressal mechanisms are articulated 
in the Infosys Code of Conduct and Ethics including 
a Whistleblower mechanism with non-retaliatory 
clauses for all stakeholders. Additionally, employees 
and contractual staff have access to robust 
resolution hubs. Suppliers are advised of grievance 
redressal mechanisms through the Supplier Code of 
Conduct which they mandatorily sign.
The ESG Committee reviews client engagements 
relating to climate action and sustainability efforts 
through the Company’s sustainability offerings and 
solutions. It also reviews compliance with climate 
change regulations across various jurisdictions, 
applicable to the Company.
Interaction with other Board committees
The ESG Committee works closely with other 
Board committees to further our ESG ambitions. 
For instance, it informs ESG risks and challenges, if 
any, in achieving progress on the goals, to the Risk 
Management Committee and seeks its support to 
address the risks.
It interacts with the Stakeholder’s Relationship 
Committee to discuss performance on ESG 
assessments and actions for improvements related 
to the Company’s ESG performance from the 
security-holder’s perspective. 
It collaborates with the CSR Committee to align CSR 
initiatives with ESG ambitions. 
It also interacts with the Cybersecurity Risk Sub-
committee as part of its efforts to track progress on 
the information security and data privacy ambitions. 
In addition to the ESG Committee, other Board 
committees and senior management are also 
actively involved in enhancing our performance 
and disclosures on a range of ESG topics relating 
to our different stakeholder groups. Specific cases 
of acquisitions, important managerial decisions, 
material positive / negative developments and 
statutory matters are presented to the committees 
of the Board and later, with the recommendation of 
the committees, to the Board for its approval. 
Refer to Infosys Integrated Annual Report 2024-25. 
The Company has a robust related-parties 
governance framework to ensure that there are 
no conflicts of interest situations or transactions.  
During FY 2025, all transactions were reviewed in 
accordance with the  related-parties transactions 
governance framework and appropriate approvals 
were sought, where required.
ESG performance evaluation 
ESG goals are a part of the corporate scorecard 
and the ESG performance parameters of leaders 
are cascaded to various levels in the organization. 
ESG performance of the Company is linked to the 
compensation of the CEO & MD and other leaders. 
Read more in the Corporate Governance Report.
To improve the effectiveness of the Board and 
its committees, as well as that of each individual 
director, a formal and rigorous Board evaluation is 
conducted annually through a leadership advisory 
firm – Egon Zehnder. The details are available in 
the Corporate governance report that is part of the 
Infosys Integrated Annual Report. 
ESG Committee Charter 
The purpose of the Environmental, Social and 
Governance Committee is to assist the Board and 
the Company in fulfilling the ambitions committed 
in the ESG vision of the Company.
Read more.
The purpose of the Council is to execute the 
programs and plans of the ESG Committee to 
achieve the ambitions outlined in the ESG Vision 
2030. The Council nominates sponsors from the 
executive leadership team, who work closely with 
the ESG ambition leads to ensure progress on the 
goals. The Council has the overall responsibility 
for ESG governance, reporting, communication, 
branding, and taking stock of the performance and 
discussing programs and plans, as appropriate.
The Company receives disclosure of interest, 
including both self and relatives, at regular intervals 
from its Directors, which helps the Company identify 
the entities / bodies with which the Company 
Recognized 8th year in a row by Institutional Investor 
Advisory Services (IiAS)
Board Accountability
The Company ensures the accountability of its 
board of directors through various measures 
including stipulating average Board meeting 
attendance, a CEO succession plan, and Board 
performance reviews.
Read more in the Corporate Governance Report.
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
63  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Building sustainable and responsible supply chains
commitment to ethical business practices and 
sustainability. We encourage our suppliers to join in 
this commitment, based on a shared set of values 
and principles. We pursue mutually beneficial 
relationships with our suppliers and seek to work 
with businesses that are committed to act fairly and 
with integrity towards their stakeholders, observing 
the applicable rules of law. The Supplier Code of 
Conduct (SCoC) draws inspiration from the Infosys 
Code of Conduct and Ethics and the principles of 
the UNGC. It provides a detailed account of material 
topics that we are focused on to nurture and sustain 
responsible supply chains. As part of the onboarding 
process, all vendors must accept the Infosys SCoC. 
This is tracked diligently by the procurement team. 
Violations to the Supplier Code, can be reported 
through http://oic.infosys.com and the Infosys 
Helpline numbers, whistleblower@infosys.com 
and vendorincident@infosys.com. There were no 
supplier complaints in fiscal 2025.
Screening before empanelment
All  our new suppliers go through an online ESG 
assessment through a third party tool as part of 
the pre-contracting  process.  The assessment 
covers publicly available information on sanctions, 
corruption, financial crimes, and litigations as 
part of the Governance dimension of ESG.  Once 
this assessment is complete and there are no 
adverse findings,  suppliers indicate through 
our ESG questionnaire whether they have ESG 
practices in their organizations covering social and 
environmental dimensions. If they respond in the 
affirmative, we invite them to share their ESG related 
information on social and environmental practices.  
In FY 2025, we onboarded 2015 new suppliers.  
38% of our new suppliers have responded to our 
ESG questionnaire  on social and environmental 
practices as part of the onboarding process.  The 
rest 68% have been invited to log into our ESG 
learning portal (Wingspan) and avail of the learning 
resources we have provided.  This strategy is in line 
with our intent to strengthen ESG awareness and 
practice among our suppliers. Additionally, if a new 
supplier is part of our Top 75% spend, they will 
also undergo an assessment on ESG performance 
through a third party provider.  We also support 
their 'improvement' journey through sharing best 
practices and helping them engage with specialists 
we have identified for this purpose.    In line with our 
statutory reporting requirements in the BRSR, we 
conduct these assessments for the top 75% spend 
suppliers annually.   
Local procurement 
Our centralized procurements are in India, but 
we engage with local suppliers for local needs 
across geographies. We track and report diverse 
spends and make this information available to our 
clients on request. The proportion of spending on 
local suppliers was about 25.6% in fiscal 2025. We 
did not have any significant actual and potential 
negative environmental and social impacts in the 
supply chain.
Supplier engagement
Sambandh is our biannual supplier meeting. Our 
theme at Sambandh was ‘Sustainable procurement 
through engagement’. Over 700 suppliers engaged 
in Sambandh across locations in India through fiscal 
2024 and fiscal 2025. The engagement included 
workshops and discussions on the principles 
contained in the Infosys SCoC and ESG-compliant 
procurement practices.
ESG assessments 
As of fiscal 2025, we have covered 800+ supplier 
groups through ESG assessments. The assessments 
cover governance, ethics and compliance with law, 
fair business practices, labor practices and human 
rights, health and safety, and environment. The 
assessment is based on a protocol which leverages 
the Infosys SCoC, ISO 26000, Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI), United Nations Human Rights 
Council (UNHRC), Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) and 
other international frameworks. The Infosys SCoC 
leverages the UNGC principles including protecting 
and upholding internationally proclaimed human 
rights, treating all persons with respect and dignity 
while safeguarding their rights, the elimination of 
forced and compulsory labor, the abolition of child 
labor in the supply chain and strong corporate 
governance practices including anti-corruption and 
anti-bribery and promoting fair business practices 
across the supply chain. During the assessment no 
actual and potential negative environmental and 
social impact was identified in the supply chain. 
273 suppliers engaged 
to enhance their climate 
performance
Our upstream value chain consists of more than 
9,000 suppliers across three categories – suppliers 
of people, suppliers of products and suppliers of 
services. Supplier relationships include longterm, 
short-term, contractual, and project-based 
relationships. Our procurement from MSMEs 
amounted to 9.7% of our overall spend. The entities 
downstream from us are our clients. We serve a 
variety of clients across diverse industries ranging 
from aerospace, automobile, financial services, 
healthcare, life sciences, utilities and more. For more 
information, read Business Consulting Services and 
Technology Services offered at Infosys.
Infosys believes in and is committed to partnering 
with the highest quality suppliers to ensure that 
we deliver best-of-breed business and IT solutions 
to our clients. As a signatory to the United Nations 
Global Compact (UNGC), Infosys leverages the 
UNGC principles covering human rights, labor, 
environment, and anti-corruption as foundational 
principles for building and improving its sustainable 
supply chain practices. The Company’s Responsible 
Supply Chain and Supplier Diversity Policy is an 
expression of our commitment to integrate these 
principles into our supply chain relationships and 
towards building long-term environmental, social, 
and economic opportunities for diverse businesses. 
This commitment is manifested in our internal 
activities and processes, as well as through the 
organizations we engage with externally. Integrity 
and ethics govern all our supplier partnerships, 
while also supporting and encouraging the 
aspirations of diverse businesses.
Infosys Supplier Code of Conduct
Infosys is proud of the way it conducts its business 
and has always been a Company with a strong 
Sambandh supplier meet
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
64  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Deepening our responsible supply chain 
commitment 
In fiscal 2025, we onboarded a third-party 
managed services provider to help assess our 
suppliers and guide their efforts in incorporating 
responsible business practices in their 
organizations. This program includes supplier 
assessments on a globally consistent framework 
along with industry benchmarks, supplier self-
assessments through a questionnaire-led approach 
and capacity-building programs. This effort enables 
us to baseline supplier performance on ESG, 
encourage sharing of best practices and engage 
actively on improvement opportunities.
ESG learning channel for suppliers 
We launched a dedicated learning channel for our 
suppliers on Infosys Wingspan. The portal contains 
ESG learning and best practices and provides 
learners an opportunity to discuss, ideate, and 
engage on ESG topics. 
Decarbonizing the supply chain 
Infosys has been a leader in climate action for 
many years due to its bold action in mitigating 
climate change impacts. Our ambitious ESG Vision 
2030 and our goal to become climate positive in 
2030 are important actions in this endeavor. We 
have been disclosing environmental information 
through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 
2006 and remain on CDP's leadership quadrant 
for the ninth year in a row. Our Science Based 
Target Initiative (SBTi) endeavors to reduce our 
environmental impact, mitigate risk and, promote 
environmental stewardship in our operations, 
including our supply chains. To meet these 
ambitious goals, Infosys expects its supply chain 
partners to align with the Company’s environmental 
vision and ambitions. To support our suppliers' 
efforts for early adoption, we organized in-person 
four training sessions for suppliers representing 
a large part of our capex in fiscal 2025 on climate 
change and the knowledge required to facilitate 
accurate climate change disclosures including best 
practices monitoring, maintaining, and improving 
data capture methodologies, emissions monitoring 
as well as calculation techniques applicable to the 
organization. The workshops leveraged Infosys’ 
benchmark practices in environmental sustainability 
while offering learners an opportunity to experience 
our campuses, referred to as ‘living labs’ for clean 
technologies. 
For more information please read the section on 
Climate Change in this ESG report. 
ESG learning channel for Suppliers
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
65  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Integrity and Compliance
The Ethics and Compliance Program at Infosys has two key objectives – to uphold and ensure the 
values of integrity and transparency and to assure enterprise-wide regulatory compliance. Integrity 
is key to nurturing a responsible business. Beyond regulation and stakeholder attention, there is 
a growing recognition that good behavior is good for business. Our values are the principles we 
use to run the Company daily and are the source of our Code of Conduct and Ethics. Our values 
are the foundation of everything we do and are encapsulated in the acronym C-LIFE (Client value, 
Leadership by example, Integrity and transparency, Fairness and Excellence).
Code of Conduct and Ethics
We firmly believe that following the highest 
standards of business conduct and ethics helps us 
run our business responsibly. Our Code of Conduct 
and Ethics ("the Code") helps us maintain the 
highest ethical standards in everything we do. It 
complies with the legal requirements of applicable 
laws and regulations, including antibribery and 
anti-corruption and ethical handling of conflicts 
of interest. It also highlights expectations from our 
employees. The Code is signed off by the Board 
and the Office of Integrity and Compliance is the 
custodian of the Code. Our business partners 
acknowledge and comply with the Supplier Code of 
Conduct. 
Reinforcing a culture of compliance 
Digital version of the Code 
We also have a digital version of the Code. It offers 
a user-friendly and easy-to-navigate audio-visual 
experiences that also allows access to specific topics 
in an interactive manner. The Code can be accessed 
on mobile devices as well. The digital version of the 
Code aims to help every employee understand the 
behavior we expect and the principles and values 
to build enduring relationships with our clients, 
employees, and partners. It has become a platform 
to create awareness and have an engaging dialogue 
with all stakeholders, and influence behavior and 
showcase the Infosys culture. 
Local Compliance Officer program 
To further raise awareness among our employees 
about ethical aspects globally, a Local Compliance 
Officer (LCO) network has also been created across 
the Infosys Group in collaboration with the Office of 
Integrity and Compliance. The LCO network plays a 
crucial role in promoting an organizational culture 
that encourages ethical conduct and a commitment 
to compliance with the law, regulations, and policies 
and helps in maximizing the impact of ethics-related 
compliance training. 
Statutory and regulatory compliance
Statutory Compliance Practice
Infosys has implemented a statutory compliance 
program covering a wide swathe of business 
enabling areas, covering units (inclusive of branches, 
subsidiaries, legal entities, etc.) across the global 
locations. This program has ensured that entities 
set up, irrespective of the location, follow the law 
of the land not just during the initial startup phase 
but on a continuous basis. Compliance obligations 
on topics around Cybersecurity, Anti-Bribery and 
Anti-Corruption, Anti-Trust, etc. are not just given 
due importance but are tracked, implemented, 
and monitored on a regular basis. The program is 
monitored on a regular basis keeping pace with the 
growth of the organization globally.
Regulatory compliance practice
In addition to the statutory one, Infosys set up a 
regulatory compliance program to centralize, track 
and monitor the implementation of compliances 
stemming from client engagements. Industry vertical 
compliances across 19 verticals have been scoped, 
implemented, monitored for effectiveness topped 
up with an overview of new compliances and/or 
changes to the existing ones on the horizon. The 
program enabled Infosys to comply with all the 
applicable laws and regulations, ensuring adequate 
governance across the industry spectrum.
Responsible Artificial Intelligence (AI)
As a global technology leader, Infosys recognizes the 
transformative potential of AI. Our responsible AI 
framework is grounded in ethical principles: fairness, 
transparency, privacy, and accountability. We are 
dedicated to developing safe, unbiased, and human-
aligned AI systems, governed by strong oversight 
mechanisms. Through ongoing stakeholder 
engagement and collaboration with global standards 
bodies, we aim to foster innovation that upholds 
public trust and protects societal well-being.
Read more
Infosys recognized by 
Ethisphere among 2025 World’s 
Most Ethical Companies® for 
the fifth consecutive year
we uphold. We aim to continue to build a culture of 
compliance, where everyone feels they can do the 
right thing and prioritize legal and ethical choices. 
Training on the Code
Our employees and the Board members are 
trained on the Code. We have a Smart Awareness 
Quiz (SAQ), which includes training modules that 
employees are mandatorily required to undertake 
every year to renew their commitment to the Code. 
Our vendor partners were also trained on the 
Supplier Code of Conduct through various channels 
including live sessions during the vendor partner 
meet called Sambandh. We also have a detailed 
communication plan to use multiple channels of 
communication like emails, video messages, blogs, 
gamified assessments, and storyboards to spread 
awareness about various policies. 
#SwipeRightforIntegrity
#SwipeRightforIntegrity is an annual legal and 
compliance event organized by Infosys. The event 
brings together our leaders to reinforce our values 
of integrity, transparency, and good governance 
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
66  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) 
practices and policy 
Our ABAC practices and policy is reviewed by the 
Management at regular intervals. With an evolving 
landscape, Infosys is committed to a responsible 
ABAC risk management framework to demonstrate 
a comprehensive risk management program 
to reduce the risks by regularly assessing risk in 
alignment with its growth strategies, and to drive 
an ethical and risk intelligent culture, to increase 
the certainty of business outcomes. Risk assessment 
for bribery and corruption is done periodically 
and the criteria used include business units / 
internal departments, location, and the Corruption 
Perception Index (CPI) of countries, among others. 
Anti-competitive practices policy 
The Anti-Trust Policy states the objective, scope, 
applicability, and regulatory consequences. 
This policy encompasses the three aspects of 
antitrust law bordering on: (i) abuse of dominance; 
(ii) anti- trust; (iii) merger control. The policy is 
reviewed periodically by the Management for its 
appropriateness and applicability. In addition to the 
policy being setup, training is provided at regular 
intervals to colleagues and / or teams which form 
part of the high-risk group for better awareness. 
Export control policy 
The export control policy describes Infosys’ export 
control program and is reviewed periodically by the 
Management. The export control program protects 
the Company and its employees from potential 
risk of violation of sanctions prescribed under 
export control regulations and facilitates business 
expansion in accordance with these regulations. All 
our customers and vendors are screened against 
various sanctions to ensure that we are compliant. 
As part of the program, training modules, and 
awareness campaigns are rolled out to relevant 
employees to ensure that they are aware and are 
compliant with export control laws. We have a 
self-assessment and certification program in place 
for anti-bribery and anti-corruption, antitrust / anti-
competition, and export control. 
Whistleblower policy 
The Infosys Whistleblower Policy is a comprehensive 
and well-designed mechanism that encourages 
employees, vendors, customers, and any other 
stakeholders to report any unethical conduct, 
violation of applicable laws or the Company’s 
Code of Conduct and Ethics occurring within the 
Company. With strict confidentiality measures and 
multiple reporting channels, the policy ensures that 
whistleblowers are protected from any retaliation. The 
Company reviews all complaints impartially and takes 
appropriate action, as applicable, while providing 
regular communication to ensure awareness 
about the policy. The Infosys Whistleblower Policy 
is a testament to the Company’s commitment 
to transparency, accountability, and responsible 
corporate citizenship. 
Use of technology for effective compliance 
monitoring of controls 
We have leveraged Artificial Intelligence (AI) and 
Machine Learning (ML) technology to review and 
identify exceptions in compliance and Anti-Bribery 
and Anti-Corruption controls. 
Compliance proof-testing
Infosys implemented a statutory compliance 
program covering 80 countries and 14 regulatory 
areas across major business enabling functions 
in 2018. The program instituted a self-assessment 
of the compliance status against a compliance 
framework with a maker checker process built into 
it alongside enabling the creation of a repository of 
compliance proofs against selfassessment.  Through 
aggregating compliance proofs across countries 
and regulatory areas, Infosys designed an OCR-
based technology to scan the proofs and validate if 
the proofs corroborate the compliance status.  The 
technology was further leveraged to combine it with 
a rule engine testing compliance control around 
timeliness and accuracy of the compliance proof 
uploaded. 
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) 
program 
Infosys develops and manages multiple office 
facilities and collaborates with multiple vendors/
service providers during various phases of 
construction. Infosys engages with vendors for 
infrastructure development, facility maintenance 
and physical security. Sometimes, services to be 
obtained include permits, licenses, approvals, 
marketing activities / expenses, awareness 
campaigns and liaising with the authorities for 
filings and reporting requirements.
Infosys has implemented controls in procure-to-
pay process to ensure appropriate proof of service 
by vendors is submitted, reviewed, and approved 
before payments are released. The systems also 
monitor the process of requisitioning, purchasing, 
receiving, paying, and accounting for goods 
and services, from the point of order through to 
payment. Some of the controls built into the process 
are: 
•  Traceability of transactions at initial procurement 
stages through user declaration and OCR 
technology. 
•  Trail of documentation to substantiate various 
milestones and proofs of services availed. 
•  Built-in escalation matrix to ensure timely approval 
of red flags identified for appropriate resolution 
and action. 
•  Tracking of potential red flag indicators through 
use of tools. 
•  Periodic assessments of transactions on sample 
basis considering factors such as high-risk 
vendors/transactions.
In addition, digitized self-assessment and 
certification is also rolled out as part of monitoring 
and controls.
Grievance redressal 
Our grievance redressal mechanisms are articulated 
in the Infosys Code of Conduct and Ethics including 
a Whistleblower mechanism with non-retaliatory 
clauses for all stakeholders. Additionally, employees 
and contractual staff have access to robust 
resolution hubs. Suppliers are advised of grievance 
redressal mechanisms through the Supplier 
Code of Conduct which they mandatorily sign. 
Employees, as important stakeholders, provide their 
feedback on a variety of topics on engagement 
through the periodic pulse survey. This offers 
them an opportunity to share feedback on the 
design, review and improvements to grievance 
mechanisms. Infosys is committed to providing a 
safe and positive work environment. Employees 
also have access to forums where they can highlight 
matters or concerns faced at the workplace. This is 
achieved through grievance resolution mechanism 
comprising resolution hubs. Read more
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
67  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Engaging with stakeholders and earning trust through 
transparent communication
Effective stakeholder engagement allows us to proactively consider our stakeholders needs and 
translate them into specific actions and informed decisions while building mutually beneficial 
relationships. Our stakeholder groups are investors / shareholders, clients, employees and sub-
contractors, suppliers / partners, governments / regulators and the community at large.
Infosys is an active member of the WEF’s Alliance of 
CEO Climate Leaders, a coalition of business leaders 
dedicated to accelerating the transition to a net-zero 
economy. This involves setting science-based targets, 
transparently disclosing emissions, and fostering 
decarbonization and collaborative partnerships 
throughout global value chains. Recognizing the 
necessity of public- private collaboration to limit 
global warming to 1.5 °C, Infosys, as part of this 
alliance, signed an open letter to global leaders at 
COP29 reinforcing this commitment.
A key participant in the WEF’s Chief Diversity and 
Inclusion Officers Community, Infosys is a signatory 
of Partnering for Racial Justice in Business. This 
global coalition unites organizations and their 
C-suite leaders in a shared commitment to fostering 
equitable and just workplaces for professionals from 
under-represented racial and ethnic backgrounds.
At the WEF Annual Meeting 2025 Salil Parekh, 
Infosys CEO & MD, participated in a plenary session 
on “State of Climate and Nature”. This year marks 
the 10th Anniversary of the historic Paris Agreement, 
however the world is not yet on track to meet 
its goals. Salil participated in this session along 
with Al Gore (Vice-President of the United States 
(1993-2001); Chairman and Co-Founder, Generation 
Investment Management LLP), Gim Huay Neo 
(Managing Director, World Economic Forum) , 
Muhammad Yunus (Chief Advisor, Bangladesh 
Government), Katherine Gao Haichun (Co-Chair, 
Trina Solar), Pedro Sánchez (Prime Minister of 
Spain, Office of the Prime Minister of Spain) and 
Andrew Forrest (Executive Chairman and Founder, 
Fortescue). Read more.
Infosys actively contributes to global thought 
leadership through the participation of its key 
executives in strategic panel discussions. Inderpreet 
Sawhney, Chief Legal and Compliance Officer, 
engaged in multiple high-level dialogues hosted by 
The Female Quotient, addressing critical topics such 
as ‘Reimagining Workplaces that Work for Everyone’ 
and ‘The Next Frontier: Technology, Ethics, and 
the Power of Skilling’. She was also a panelist in a 
discussion on ‘The Strategic Role of the Chief Legal 
Officer in Risk Management’.  
Further demonstrating Infosys’ commitment to 
fostering diversity and inclusion in technology, 
Karmesh Vaswani, Global Head for Retail, Consumer 
& Logistics, represented the Company on The 
Female Quotient’s panel, ‘Elevating the Next 
Generation of Women in Tech &  AI.’ Ashiss Kumar 
Dash, Global Head of Services, Utilities, Resources, 
and Energy, represented Infosys at the World 
Economic Forum, contributing his expertise to 
sessions on ‘Risk, Resilience and the Cost of Air 
Pollution’ and ‘Net-Zero Manufacturing and Supply 
Chains: Actions for 2030 and Beyond’. Furthermore, 
Mr. Ashiss Kumar Dash and his team are actively 
involved in the Forum’s Nature Positive Transitions 
initiative, demonstrating Infosys’ commitment to 
engaging and supporting the technology sector’s 
role in halting and reversing nature loss by 2030.  
Davos
Demonstrating its deep-rooted commitment 
to sustainability, Infosys ensured a completely 
carbon-neutral presence at Davos 2025. 
This was achieved through the adoption of 
sustainable methods and materials to minimize 
emissions. For any unavoidable emissions, 
Infosys invested in certified Gold Standard 
carbon offsets, underscoring its proactive 
approach to environmental responsibility.
At Davos, Infosys and Street Child jointly hosted 
a significant panel discussion addressing the 
critical issue of ‘Education in Emergencies: 
When the Cameras Leave’. With the unrest 
in Ukraine nearing its third year, Infosys 
strategically highlighted the often-overlooked 
education crisis that persists in such contexts. 
Recognizing that Education in Emergencies 
is a global and enduring challenge, the panel 
underscored the situation in Ukraine, where 
over 3,000 schools have been damaged or 
destroyed, leaving approximately 1.9 million 
school-aged children reliant on partial or fully 
remote learning. In response to this urgent 
need, Infosys has partnered with Street Child, 
actively contributing through initiatives such as 
the renovation of seven digital learning centers 
in Dnipropetrovsk Oblast and the development 
of vital teacher and student resources via the 
Infosys Springboard platform.  
Global Engagements
World Economic Forum
Infosys maintains a long-standing strategic 
partnership of 25 years with the World 
Economic Forum (WEF), collaborating on critical 
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) 
initiatives.As a founding business partner of 
the WEF’s Reskilling Revolution, Infosys actively 
contributes to the initiative’s goal of equipping 
one billion individuals with enhanced education, 
skills, and employment opportunities by 2030. This 
commitment is evidenced by the integration of the 
Pathfinders Online Institute within the program.
We continue to lead on global 
ESG assessments 
Mr. Salil Parekh, CEO and MD, Infosys, 
at The World Economic Forum
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
68  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Economist Impact
Launching Economist Impact’s Sustainability 
Atlas powered by Infosys Topaz - The 
Sustainability Atlas | Home
Infosys has joined forces with Economist Impact 
to launch the Sustainability Atlas, a cutting-
edge GenAI tool focused on sustainability. This 
collaboration builds on the success of previous 
award- winning projects such as the Value Chain 
Navigator and the partnership with the Economist 
Educational Foundation. The Sustainability Atlas is 
designed to provide comprehensive insights into 
key sustainability themes, leveraging Infosys Topaz, 
an AI-first suite of offerings that utilizes generative 
AI technologies. This innovative tool serves as a 
gateway to sustainability-focused insights, offering 
business leaders and policymakers the data and 
intelligence needed to drive meaningful climate 
action. Drawing on insights from over two dozen 
Economist Impact indices, the Sustainability 
Atlas comprises 1700+ indicators and 500 reports 
and articles. This extensive database allows the 
Atlas to provide clear and succinct responses to 
sustainability-related questions, offering an efficient 
way to gain a holistic view of the sustainability 
landscape across different geographies.
Key features of the Sustainability Atlas include:
•  Insights Across a Range of Sustainability Topics: 
The Atlas’ chatbot provides succinct answers to 
users’ sustainability questions, informed by trusted 
sources across a wide range of topics from climate 
resilience and circular economy to social inclusion.
•  Cross-Geography Comparison Capabilities: 
The interactive globe feature of the Atlas allows 
users to understand and compare the state of 
sustainability between two countries and cities 
across various metrics, including food security, 
health inclusion, and EV readiness.
Use cases of the Sustainability Atlas are vast and 
varied. Business leaders can utilize the tool to 
identify sustainability trends and make informed 
decisions that align with their corporate social 
responsibility goals. Policymakers can leverage 
the Atlas to craft data-driven policies that 
address pressing environmental and social issues. 
Additionally, researchers and academics can use 
the tool to access a wealth of data for their studies 
and analyses. This collaboration between Infosys 
and Economist Impact underscores a shared 
commitment to advancing sustainability solutions 
and accelerating impactful change worldwide.
ESG campaigns
#ThriveAtInfosys
When our people walk out the door every evening, 
we must make sure they are happy to come back the 
next morning. 
 
#ThriveAtInfosys is proof of our commitment to 
foster a culture at work where we cheer for one 
another, balance effort and rejuvenation, come 
together to support colleagues through challenging 
times, make physical and mental wellness a priority, 
recognize each other’s potential and create growth 
opportunities that align with diverse goals. 
Read more.
#InclusionInProgress
There have been decades of progress in equality 
and recognition for the LGBTQIA+ community. And 
yet, the community still faces discrimination every 
day. 100% acceptance is still work in progress. Our 
campaign #InclusionInProgress amplifies powerful 
perspectives shared by LGBTQIA+ community 
members and allies, and the need to accelerate 
progress in creating a truly inclusive environment. 
Read more.
Our performance on  
ESG assessments in FY 2025
The Company has been recognized for 
its efforts to consistently demonstrate 
commitment to sustainability, ethical 
leadership, and responsible business practices.
• Infosys was conferred an AA rating in the 
MSCI ESG ratings. The MSCI ESG ratings 
measure ESG performance, including the 
management of financially-relevant ESG risks 
and opportunities, of companies worldwide.
• Infosys is also a forerunner in driving climate 
action across its operations. It has been 
recognized for leadership in corporate 
transparency and performance on climate 
change by the global environmental 
nonprofit CDP, securing a place on the CDP 
annual A List in 2024. This is the ninth year 
in a row that Infosys has been featured in 
the leadership category under the CDP 
Climate Change disclosure - a testament 
to Infosys’ climate action efforts, including 
climate-related risk management, mitigation 
initiatives, transparent disclosures on 
emissions, and emission reduction initiatives 
across the supply and value chain.
• In their latest ESG Risk Ratings, Sustainalytics 
recognized Infosys as an industry-wide 
and regional top-rated ESG performer. 
Sustainalytics is a renowned independent 
ESG and corporate governance research, 
ratings, and analytics firm.
• EcoVadis, a globally acclaimed ratings 
platform for corporate social responsibility 
and sustainable procurement, recognized 
Infosys with a Silver medal for CSR practices.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
69  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Data Privacy
Thought Leadership in Data Privacy
We understand that staying ahead in a dynamic privacy landscape requires leadership and advocacy beyond the organization. The 
Infosys Data Privacy Office is deeply engaged with global industry bodies, regulatory groups, and standard-setting organizations. 
Through these partnerships, we help shape the development of data protection frameworks, policies, and international 
standards, particularly in emerging areas such as artificial intelligence. Senior leaders from the DPO frequently represent Infosys at 
international conferences and collaborate with governments and institutions to inform regulatory direction. These contributions 
underscore our role not just as a compliant entity, but as a driver of best practices in data privacy across industries and borders.
Evolving notion of privacy
At Infosys, we recognize that the rapidly evolving 
digital landscape has reshaped the very meaning 
of privacy. With the proliferation of technologies 
such as artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things, 
and big data, we are seeing transformative benefits 
across society. However, these same technologies 
introduce greater risks related to data privacy 
and security. Our business model involves the 
seamless global flow of data, which must comply 
with regulations that often have extraterritorial 
reach. That’s why we emphasize the importance 
of consistent and effective data protection 
practices across every country we operate in. Our 
independent Data Privacy Office (DPO) is central 
to this effort, ensuring that privacy is balanced 
with innovation. As AI continues to evolve, we are 
mindful that many existing privacy regulations 
already apply to AI systems that process personal 
data, and we closely align our practices with 
key principles like transparency, fairness, non-
discrimination, explainability, and human oversight.
To effectively manage these evolving risks and 
regulatory expectations, we have built a strong 
internal governance structure that supports our 
privacy objectives across the organization.
Governance and Organizational Structure 
A well-defined governance model forms the 
backbone of our privacy framework. The Data 
Privacy Office at Infosys functions as both architect 
and checker of privacy controls, while business-
enabling functions and delivery teams serve as 
makers. Periodic audits by internal and external 
entities reinforce accountability, and quarterly 
reviews by senior management provide strategic 
direction. Our multi-tiered governance is further 
First India-headquartered Company 
to receive Binding Corporate 
Rules (BCR) approval from EU data 
protection authorities.
enhanced by three dedicated councils: the Privacy 
Sub-Council, comprising representatives from 
delivery and enabling functions; the Data Privacy 
Council, which includes business unit and function 
heads; and the Legal Compliance and Risk Council, 
featuring senior leadership such as the General 
Counsel, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Risk 
Officer.
This governance model supports our broader 
compliance strategy, which is focused on aligning 
operational practices with regulatory mandates 
and internal standards. Sustained Approach to Data 
Privacy Compliance.
Sustained Approach to Data Privacy 
Compliance
Infosys has long recognized the importance 
of a strategic and structured approach to 
privacy compliance. More than a decade ago, 
we established our Data Privacy function as 
an independent group reporting directly to 
top management. This function is built on 
the globally recognized Privacy Information 
Management System (PIMS) framework and is 
responsible for ensuring compliance with data 
protection regulations across business processes, 
applications, and client engagements. Our Data 
Privacy Policy—accessible to all employees via the 
intranet—reflects top management’s commitment 
to privacy. This commitment extends beyond 
internal operations to include third-party service 
providers. In line with our values of transparency 
and accountability, we provide privacy notices at 
data collection points for both internal and external 
data subjects. The privacy statement for external 
stakeholders is also publicly available on our 
website and is routinely updated to reflect changes 
in data handling practices or applicable laws.
Read more.
As we continue to build on this foundation, 
embedding privacy into the design of our systems 
and services has become a key enabler of both 
compliance and innovation.
Customer data sharing  
Customer data and cybersecurity is of the utmost 
importance to us. Infosys will provide information 
as sought by any Government or law enforcement 
agencies, in accordance with our legal obligations. 
We have not received any request for customer 
information from Government and law enforcement 
agencies in FY 2025.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
70  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
adherence to cross-border data breach notification 
obligations.
In jurisdictions with data transfer restrictions, 
Infosys adopts appropriate legal mechanisms such 
as Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) and Joint 
Controller Agreements to legitimize international 
data transfers. Wherever possible, we aim to 
minimize or avoid such transfers in alignment with 
local regulatory expectations.
Demonstrating our commitment to global 
data privacy standards, Infosys became the 
first India-headquartered Company to receive 
Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) approval from EU 
data protection authorities—an internationally 
recognized framework for safeguarding personal 
data transferred outside the EU.
As we continue to build on this foundation, 
embedding privacy into the design of our systems 
and services has become a key enabler of both 
compliance and innovation.
Privacy by Design Enablement 
We believe that privacy should be integrated at 
the design stage of any process or application that 
handles personal data. To embed this principle 
into our organizational DNA, we launched the 
EPIC initiative—Embedding Privacy by Design 
into Infosys Culture. Rolled out by the Data Privacy 
Office in collaboration with quality and delivery 
teams, EPIC is a company-wide strategic program.
It incorporates privacy considerations into the 
architecture, development, and deployment phases 
of the software lifecycle. Through this initiative, our 
development teams are trained to apply the seven 
foundational principles of Privacy by Design using 
privacy design strategies, patterns, and privacy-
enhancing technologies (PETs). This not only 
supports regulatory compliance but also fosters a 
privacy-first mindset among our engineers.
Our ability to design and deliver privacy-conscious 
solutions is further bolstered by adherence to 
global benchmarks and certifications.
Cross-Jurisdictional Compliance
At Infosys, we maintain a robust, enterprise-wide 
data privacy and compliance framework designed 
to meet the complex and evolving regulatory 
requirements across jurisdictions. A dedicated 
compliance team actively monitors legal and 
regulatory developments globally, leveraging 
inputs from multiple sources, including regulatory 
databases, industry bodies, law firm alerts, and 
consulting advisories. This monitoring enables near 
real-time identification of changes and facilitates 
timely compliance actions.
To operationalize compliance tracking, Infosys 
employs specialized tools while drawing on 
memberships with professional organizations 
including the International Association of Privacy 
Professionals (IAPP) and the Association of 
Corporate Counsel (ACC). A centralized compliance 
repository maps regulatory requirements to 
business-enabling functions, ensuring consistent 
implementation across the enterprise.
We conduct Data Protection Impact Assessments 
(DPIAs) prior to initiating new data processing 
activities or deploying technologies involving 
personal data. This ensures that privacy-by-design 
principles are embedded from the outset. Our 
incident response protocols include predefined 
procedures for notification, assessment, 
mitigation, and documentation, supporting 
EPIC — Embedding Privacy by 
Design into Infosys Culture
Integrates privacy by design into every 
stage of the software development 
lifecycle—from architecture to 
deployment
Privacy Performance Metrics
We are continuously strengthening our data privacy 
measurement framework under the oversight of 
our Data Protection Office (DPO). Various metrics 
are regularly analyzed, reviewed for trends, and 
presented to senior leadership during the cross-
functional Quarterly Data Privacy Council Meetings. 
Insights from these reviews guide continuous 
improvement initiatives across the organization.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
71  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Global Standards and Certifications 
Infosys has adopted globally recognized protocols 
to fortify our data privacy practices. We are among 
the first few organizations worldwide to earn ISO 
27701 certification for our privacy information 
management system. Our efforts to expand this 
certification across our global delivery centers are 
ongoing. Additionally, we recently became the first 
India-headquartered Company to achieve Binding 
Corporate Rules (BCR) certification from EU data 
protection authorities. This milestone underscores 
our commitment to responsible international data 
transfers and further aligns us with the highest 
global standards for data privacy compliance.
Press Release on BCR Certification
While governance, design, and certification 
strengthen our preventive posture, robust response 
mechanisms are essential for resilience and trust.
Contributions to Global Privacy Standards
Infosys plays a proactive role in shaping global data 
privacy standards through active contributions to 
international standard-setting bodies. Our Head 
Privacy and Data Protection is a recognized expert 
in committees such as ISO SC27, ISO SC42, and the 
IEEE Standards Association. Notable standards co-
authored or edited by Infosys include:
•  ISO 27701 – Privacy Information Management 
Standard (Published)
•  ISO 29184 – Online Privacy Notices and Consents 
(Published)
•  ISO 27565 – Guidelines on Privacy Preservation 
using Zero Knowledge Proofs (In Progress)
•  ISO 27561 – Privacy Operationalization Model and 
Methods (Published)
•  ISO 27568 – Security and Privacy of Digital Twins 
(In Progress)
•  ISO 10267 – Data Usage — Personal Information 
Factor
•  ISO 25569 – AI Guidance on De-identification for 
Machine Learning (Sole Editor; In Progress)
•  IEEE P7012 – Machine-Readable Personal Privacy 
Terms
•  IEEE P7030 – Global XR Ethics
•  IS 17428 – India’s Data Privacy Standard (Convenor; 
Published)
Data Subject Rights and Breach 
Management
Safeguarding the rights of individuals is 
fundamental to our privacy strategy. As data 
subject rights become a core component of 
regulatory frameworks around the world, we 
have implemented processes that allow us to 
address such requests in a timely and compliant 
manner—even in complex enterprise settings 
where data resides in multiple formats and 
geographies. Managing these rights involves careful 
navigation of overlapping legal exceptions and 
system limitations, but we remain committed to 
honoring them. In parallel, we have established a 
comprehensive incident and breach management 
framework. At Infosys, we have robust procedures 
in place to detect, assess, contain, and resolve 
data privacy incidents. Our team of dedicated 
privacy professionals works closely with business 
units, legal, information security, communications, 
and external providers to ensure rapid and 
effective response. For high-impact cases, or 
those that require it by law, we notify the affected 
individuals and supervisory authorities, offering 
full disclosure and support. Such incidents are 
also reported to our senior leadership via the 
Incident Disclosure Committee. Our zero-tolerance 
approach is reinforced through strict consequence 
management and preventive action mechanisms, 
with key lessons integrated into organization-wide 
awareness campaigns.
To ensure these efforts are sustainable, we have 
prioritized building a strong culture of privacy 
awareness throughout the organization.
Responsible Use of Personal 
Data in Generative AI 
Infosys integrates data privacy safeguards 
into all Generative AI (GenAI) deployments 
involving personal data. In accordance 
with our data protection framework and 
applicable legal requirements, Privacy Impact 
Assessments (PIAs) are conducted for each 
deployment. We implement both technical 
and organizational controls to ensure 
responsible data usage and uphold individual 
privacy rights.
Our governance is further reinforced by 
global certifications including ISO 27701 
(Privacy Information Management System) 
and ISO 42001 (AI Management System), 
which provide structured approaches 
for compliance and accountability in the 
evolving AI and data landscape.
Among the first companies 
globally to have its PIMS 
accredited to the  
ISO 27701 Privacy Information 
Management Standard
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
72  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Building awareness and culture of privacy
We actively promote a culture of privacy awareness 
among our employees and stakeholders. Each year, 
we celebrate Data Privacy Day through interactive 
and engaging activities such as quizzes, crosswords, 
Pictionary games, and “chat with the DPO” sessions. 
Senior leaders also deliver messages that reinforce 
the importance of privacy across the organization. 
Monthly privacy tips—based on real-world scenarios 
and evolving threat landscapes—are shared 
widely to deepen organizational understanding. 
Participation in our privacy awareness program 
is mandatory. Every Infosys employee and 
subcontractor is required to complete a role-
specific privacy awareness quiz annually, ensuring 
that knowledge remains both current and 
contextualized.
Privacy Symposium 2025
The Data Privacy Office hosted a flagship, 
in-person event in 2024. Conducted in 
collaboration with our knowledge partners—
ACC, DSCI, and IAPP—the symposium 
brought together global privacy leaders, 
chief privacy officers, academics, and industry 
practitioners to explore emerging themes 
such as data monetization, India’s DPDP 
Act, engineering for privacy, and creating a 
privacy-first culture.
Looking ahead: Future-ready data privacy
As digital ecosystems evolve, Infosys is proactively 
preparing for a new generation of privacy challenges 
driven by technologies such as Generative AI, 
quantum computing, and decentralized identity. 
Our forward-looking strategy is anchored in 
innovation, resilience, and global accountability. 
As privacy risks increase in complexity, from AI-
generated content to biometric surveillance, digital 
identity, and smart environments, Infosys remains 
This internal commitment is mirrored by our 
external engagement efforts, through which we 
shape the broader privacy ecosystem.
resolute in treating privacy not just as a compliance 
necessity but as a core ethical and enterprise value.
Infosys has set a strategic goal to expand its  
ISO 27701 certification across all relevant global 
operations in a phased manner in order to achieve  
enterprise-wide coverage, reinforcing our position 
as a global leader in privacy governance and 
ensuring that our privacy practices remain resilient 
and future-ready.
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
73  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Infosys Cybersecurity integrates a robust strategy 
with a comprehensive framework - SEED and a 
strong governance program to ensure optimal 
protection. The strategy is designed to minimize 
Cybersecurity risks and align to our business goals. 
It focuses on proactive enablement of business, 
besides ensuring continual improvement in the 
compliance posture through effective monitoring and management of cyber events. We believe that 
an effective security culture would complement our cybersecurity objectives by reducing enterprise 
risks. Infosys Cybersecurity program ensures that required controls and processes are implemented, 
monitored, measured, and improved continuously to mitigate cyber risks across domains.
Approach
Information Management 
Infosys is committed to
•  Protecting the confidentiality, availability, and 
integrity of information assets from internal and 
external threats
•  Ensuring and maintaining stakeholders trust and 
confidence about Cybersecurity
WHY
• Maximize visibility
• Minimize risk
• Early engagement
HOW
• Awareness and culture
• Security architecture
• DevSecOps
• Intuitive dashboards
• Compliance
• Optimize cost
• Amplify reach
• Rapid development
• Platforms and accelerators
• Integrated and optimized
• Automation
• Managed security service
• Academic collaboration
WHAT
SECURE BY DESIGN
SECURE BY SCALE
SECURE THE FUTURE
• Innovate faster
• Deliver value
• Thought leadership
• Competency building
• Research and innovation
• Co-created partner solution
• Emerging technologies
The executive Cybersecurity governing 
body is in place to direct and steer:
•  Alignment of Cybersecurity Strategy and policy 
with business and IT strategy.
•  Value delivery to stakeholders.
•  Assurance that cyber risks are being adequately 
addressed.
Cybersecurity Strategy and Governance
The high-level objectives of the Cybersecurity 
program at Infosys are:
1.  A Proactive business security and employee 
experience
The framework also entails a comprehensive 
Cybersecurity maturity model which helps to 
ascertain the Cybersecurity maturity as well 
as benchmark against industry peers on an 
ongoing basis. This helps in continued oversight 
and commitment from the Board and Senior 
Management  including Chief Information Security 
‘Defense in depth’ 
approach to secure 
information and 
information assets
Set of domains to evolve 
and transform within 
the Infosys cybersecurity 
framework
Capability to identify 
a cybersecurity event, 
implement appropriate 
activities to take action, and 
restore impaired services
E
E
D
Governance tier to manage 
the cybersecurity program 
for successful orchestration 
of different domains of the 
cybersecurity framework
S
SECURITY MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEM
ENTERPRISE 
SECURITY LAYER
EVOLVE 
AND TRANSFORM
DETECT  
AND  
RESPOND
2.  Continuously improve security posture and 
compliance
3.  Effective management of cyber events and,
4.  Building a security culture
Infosys’ Cybersecurity framework is built basis leading global security standards and frameworks such as the 
National Institute of Standards Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity framework and ISO 27001 which is structured 
around the below four key areas:
Officer on an ongoing basis through the Information 
Security Council (ISC) and the Cybersecurity sub-
committee.
In keeping with the ‘defense in depth’ philosophy, we 
have deployed several layers of controls to ensure 
that we keep ours, as well as our clients’ data, secure 
Positioned as a leader in ISG 
Provider Lens™
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
74  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Cybersecurity Management and Reporting
The cybersecurity practices at Infosys have evolved 
to look beyond compliance. The comprehensive 
cybersecurity metrics program has been 
contributing to the continuous improvement of 
the existing security practices and integration of 
cybersecurity within the business processes.
Information management, being an essential 
part of good IT governance, is a cornerstone at 
Infosys and has helped provide the organization 
with a robust foundation. Care is taken to ensure 
that standardized policies or guidelines apply to 
and are practical for the organization’s culture, 
business, and operational practices. Cybersecurity 
requires participation from all spheres of the 
organization. Senior management, information 
security practitioners, IT professionals, and users 
have a pivotal role to play in securing the assets of 
an organization. The success of cybersecurity can 
only be achieved by full cooperation at all levels 
of an organization, both inside and outside and 
this is what defines the level of commitment here 
at Infosys.
As a final level of defense, we undergo many 
internal audits as well as external attestations 
and audits in a year at an organization level (e.g. 
SSAE-18 SOC 1 & SOC 2 Type II, ISO 27001). We also 
undergo client account audits to assess our security 
posture and compliance against our obligations on 
an ongoing basis.
There was no material cybersecurity incident 
reported in fiscal 2025.
Our industry contributions and thought 
leadership
In this era of rapid technology disruptions and 
digital transformations, Infosys enables the 
businesses to embrace innovations and adapt to 
new technologies. We focus on strengthening cyber 
resiliency through platform led convergence and 
consolidation of security capabilities and deliver 
AI-first service offerings.
We promote cybersecurity through various social 
media channels such as LinkedIn, Twitter, and 
YouTube; sharing our point of views, whitepapers, 
service offerings, articles written by our leaders, 
their interviews stating various perspectives, and 
podcasts through our corporate handles providing 
cybersecurity thought leadership. The topics 
include impact of evolving technologies such 
as GenAI on cybersecurity, cloud security, data 
privacy and protection, and compliance, etc. In 
addition to this, we work with analysts such as PAC 
Group and industry bodies such as Data Security 
Council of India (DSCI), Information Security Forum 
(ISF), etc. to create joint thought leadership that 
is relevant to the industry practitioners. In our 
efforts to strengthen cyber awareness across social 
communities, we also participate in cybersecurity 
awareness initiatives led by non-profit organizations 
such as NASSCOM. Further, we publish a technology 
centric report that provides insights into emerging 
technology trends and how they can be applied 
to businesses. It essentially acts as a guide for 
enterprises looking to navigate the evolving digital 
landscape and make informed technology decisions 
based on current trends. We also host various 
global chapters of Infosys regularly that aim to be 
a catalyst for innovation and transformation in the 
cybersecurity domain. The distinguished members 
of the council collaborate to discuss, strategize, and 
prepare roadmaps to address the current security 
challenges of member organizations and help 
decipher the evolving industry trends. We, therefore, 
through various channels, drive awareness of and 
appreciation for cybersecurity.
Vulnerability Management
The vulnerability management program at Infosys 
follows best-in-class industry practices coupled 
with top-notch processes that have been evolving 
over the years. Rich experience of deftly managing 
the end-to-end vulnerability life cycle of Infosys 
Network and the constant hunger to stay abreast 
of the latest tools, technologies and related market 
intelligence have acted as a catalyst in fortifying the 
overall vulnerability management program.
A robust enterprise vulnerability management 
program builds the foundation for healthy security 
hygiene of an organization. The following practices 
have been put in place at Infosys for,
1.  Real time asset discovery followed by 
instantaneous identification of vulnerabilities, 
misconfigurations, and timely remediation
2.  Automation of vulnerability management, 
configuration compliance, security assessments 
and review for assets, applications, network 
devices, data, and other entities in real time
3.  Close coupling of detection and remediation 
processes; auto prioritization to reduce the 
turnaround time for closure of detected 
vulnerabilities
4.  Continuous monitoring of all public facing 
Infosys sites and assets for immediate detection 
of vulnerabilities, ports, or services
5.  Regular penetration testing assessments and 
production application testing for detection and 
remediation of vulnerabilities on a real time basis
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
75  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
The vulnerability remediation strategy of Infosys 
focuses on threat-based prioritization, vulnerability 
ageing analysis and continuous tracking for 
timely closure. We have successfully eliminated 
the ticketing system for vulnerability tracking 
by establishing a continuous detection and 
remediation cycle, where the IT teams are enabled 
and onboarded onto the vulnerability management 
platform. A Cybersecurity awareness culture is 
nurtured, and teams are encouraged to proactively 
remediate the vulnerabilities reported on their 
assets or applications.
Supply Chain Cyber Risk Management
A comprehensive supplier security risk management 
program at Infosys ensures effective management of 
potential security risks across the various stages of 
supplier engagement. The process comprises:
•  Categorization of the suppliers based on the 
nature of the services provided and the sensitivity 
of the data involved.
•  Defining standardized set of information security 
controls as applicable to each category of supplier
•  Defining, maintaining, and amending relevant 
security clauses in the supplier contracts as 
applicable to each category of supplier
•  Due diligence, security risk assessment for 
effective management of the information security 
risks associated with suppliers
Defining and monitoring of key security metrics 
for suppliers (e.g., background check, security 
awareness training completion, timely interventions 
with regard to information security incidents 
etc.) threat intel tracking and governance further 
strengthen the Infosys supplier security risk 
management program.
Cybersecurity Competency Development
With the increasing demand for cybersecurity 
jobs and a skilled workforce, Infosys has taken 
several measures to counter the cybersecurity 
talent shortage as well as in skilling, retaining, and 
diversifying its security workforce in areas such as 
application security / secure development lifecycle.
Cybersecurity team members undergo technical 
as well as behavioral training on an ongoing basis. 
Infosys leverages internal training programs, as well 
as external bodies / agencies with cybersecurity 
subject matter expertise, with a strong focus on 
learning through the classroom as well as on-the-
job training.
•  Over 2400 professionals were trained & 1900 
certified across various cybersecurity domains. 
These training programs consist of advanced 
partner programs from OEM, external agencies and 
internal Cybersecurity training facilities. 
•  Over 1400 professionals have been trained in AI 
and other new age technologies.
•  Launch of Cyber Aspire Program, as part of 
which various professionals are trained in niche 
Cybersecurity domains. Along with this, structured 
curriculum for freshers and various bridge 
programs have been launched for upskilling and 
cross-skilling of cyber professionals.
•  Infosys continues its partnership with NIIT to 
have its professionals undergo a Cybersecurity 
Master’s Program.
Nurturing, and Upholding, a Robust and 
Sustainable Cybersecurity Culture
At Infosys, driving a positive and sustainable 
cybersecurity culture is one of the key constituents 
of our robust cybersecurity strategy. We embrace 
top-notch tools and technology to strengthen 
our cybersecurity stance and have an equally 
razor-sharp focus to bolster people's security and 
keep fostering a security-first mindset among 
Infoscions. Various measures are in place to nurture 
a confident and empowered cybersecurity culture. 
At Infosys, we embrace the Secure by Design 
(SbD) principles at an organizational level with 
a focused SbD campaign running org-wide, and 
multiple trainings offered to drive awareness on 
SecureSDLC. There are various other diverse and 
proactive communication campaigns driven across 
the organization via different awareness means / 
tools, including – posters, cyber comics, employee 
handbook, caselets, cybersecurity scorecard, 
newsletter, advisories, emailers, push messages, 
annual mandatory awareness quiz, gamification, 
SME Cyber Talks, information security courses on the 
internal training platform, sessions, videos, podcasts, 
fireside chats, blogs, panel discussions, focused 
social engineering awareness, thought leadership 
messages, annual flagship event -celebrating the 
cybersecurity week etc. There is also a video-based, 
animated, and interactive e-Learning certification 
program that helps drive positive security behavior 
amongst the Infoscions.
Innovations for our clients
Infosys innovation-led offerings and capabilities:
Infosys Cyber AI, powered by Infosys Topaz, helps 
customers amplify their defender potential, build 
effective cyber defenses and enable accurate 
decision making by leveraging  platform-centric 
GenAI capabilities. We help enterprises Renew, Re-
Architect and Re-imagine their entire cyber strategy 
through AI with a focus on risk resilience. This helps 
us become a trusted cybersecurity partner for 
enterprise customers.
Cyber Next platform powered services help 
customers stay ahead of threat actors and 
proactively protect them from security risks. 
Our pre-engineered packaged and AI powered 
managed security services help monitor, detract 
and respond by getting extensive visibility and 
actionable insight through threat intelligence 
and threat hunting. Our offerings ensure risk-
based vulnerability management by providing a 
comprehensive single pane of glass posture view. 
Recent development in our Cyber Next platform 
is the integration of AI powered capabilities that 
enhances service delivery. We have merged some 
of the modules within Cyber Next platform and 
have also introduced some new modules to offer 
cybersecurity solutions relevant in the era of AI. 
Service modules include - Cyber Watch, Cyber Scan, 
Cyber Compass, Cyber Protect, Cyber AI that ensure 
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
76  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Performance on Governance Goals
Corporate Governance
Data Privacy
Information Management
Industry Recognition
Analyst recognition
•  Positioned as a Leader in the ISG Provider 
Lens™ Cybersecurity Services and Solutions 
(2021, 2022, 2023, 2024)
•  Positioned as a Leader in the Nelson Hall Cyber 
Resiliency Services NEAT Assessment 2023
•  Positioned as a Leader in Everest PEAK Matrix® 
Assessment Identity and Access Management 
(IAM) Services 2023 
•  Received the ISG Provider Lens Award 2024 
for our domain expertise and presence in the 
Americas, UK and Germany markets
Analyst testimonials
•  “Infosys’ CyberSecurity Capabilities are a 
Testament to their Relentless Pursuit of Excellence,” 
says Gautam Sampath, Principal Security Analyst 
at Information Services Group (ISG)
•  “Infosys' CyberSecurity Portfolio is a Strong 
Choice,” says Gautam Sampath, Principal Security 
Analyst at Information Services Group (ISG)
Client testimonials
•  Strengthening Cybersecurity: BECU leaders’ 
insights on the impact of Infosys Collaboration
•  Cummins and Infosys: Securing Identities 
Together
•  Infosys provides Managed Protection, Detection 
and Response to bpost (Belgian Post Group)
•  Infosys secures MS Amlin's digital 
transformation journey
•  Infosys and Ferroglobe: Journey towards a 
robust and secure cyber landscape
•  Ferroglobe partners with Infosys to secure their 
OT Security Environment
Partner awards
•  Received the Saviynt APJ Regional Delivery 
Partner of the Year 2024 for our innovation and 
excellence in leveraging Saviynt’s Identity Cloud 
to solve complex identity security challenges.
•  Received the Zscaler GSI Growth Partner 
of the Year 2024 award for our unwavering 
commitment to delivering exceptional 
business outcomes and enhancing Zero Trust 
implementation
•  Acknowledged as the Microsoft Security 
Solutions Partner across all 4 domains 
demonstrating our cutting-edge expertise in 
deploying Microsoft Security solutions
•  Acknowledged as the AWS Competency 
Partner across seven domains exhibiting our in-
depth technical expertise in AWS security and 
delivering tailored, security-focused solutions 
for specific workloads and use cases
comprehensive Managed Protection Detection and 
Response (MPDR) for our global customers.
Zero Trust Security architecture and solutions to 
navigate our customers to embrace zero trust 
security. Key innovations and offerings include 
Secure Access Service Edge (SASE) delivered 
as-a service. With SASE as-a Service, we ensure 
strengthened overall security through cloud 
delivered security controls and capabilities. Infosys 
innovation in policy standardization enforce controls 
at access level, accelerating rollout of service thereby 
reducing or eliminating legacy tools allowing our 
customers to reduce overall costs while enhancing 
end-user experience.
Secure Cloud transformation with Cobalt assets 
drives accelerated cloud adoption. With Secure 
Cloud reference architecture and Secure by Design 
principle we ensure security is embedded as part of 
cloud strategy, design, implementation, operations 
and automation.
INSIGHT TO IMPACT
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Infosys | ESG REPORT 2024-25
77  |  External Document © 2025 Infosys Limited  
© 2025 Infosys Limited, Bengaluru, India. All Rights Reserved. Infosys believes the information in this document 
is accurate as of its publication date; such information is subject to change without notice. Infosys acknowledges 
the proprietary rights of other companies to the trademarks, product names and such other intellectual property 
rights mentioned in this document. Except as expressly permitted, neither this documentation nor any part 
of it may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, 
mechanical, printing, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior permission of Infosys Limited and 
/ or any named intellectual property rights holders under this document.
Date of publication:  May 31, 2025
For more information, contact askus@infosys.com
Stay Connected
Infosys.com | NYSE: INFY
Infosys Limited
Address: 
Electronics City, Hosur Road,  
Bengaluru 560 100, India 
Tel: 	
91 80 2852 0261 
Fax: 	
91 80 2852 0362 
www.infosys.com
Contact: 
For queries related to sustainability disclosures:
ARUNA C. NEWTON 
Vice President - Head - ESG | Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 
Tel:	
+91 80 2852 0261 
Email: 	 arunacnewton@infosys.com
CIN:	
L85110KA1981PLC013115
Creative concept and design by Communication Design Group, Infosys Limited.  
© 2025 Infosys Limited, Bengaluru, India. Infosys acknowledges the proprietary rights in the trademarks of 
other companies mentioned in this report.
